A few minutes after the traffic stop on Interstate 35, Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording and Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer arrived on the scene.  Under questioning conducted by Gary Haston, Federico Saldana told the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer he lived in Laredo and  was driving the scissor lift to Dallas for repairs as a favor to Daniel Martin Huerta. Federico Saldana stated he was being paid $300 for the job. Federico Saldana did not know the exact address in Dallas where he was to take the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana but claimed the plan was for him to call Daniel Martin Huerta upon arrival in Dallas for the precise address. Approximately six minutes after the traffic stop on Interstate 35, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer informed Federico Saldana he was going to give him a warning based on the traffic violation and indicated he would need the vehicle registration of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana to complete the paperwork. Id. at 13:06:10-45. Federico Saldana stated he had identifying information for Daniel A. Huerta in the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana, and Federico Saldana gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer consent to retrieve this information from inside the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. Id. at 13:06:42. Over the next few minutes, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer continued to gather information from Federico Saldana while Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer looked for the vehicle registration documents in Josiah Bennett's patrol car. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer inquired about Federico Saldana's criminal history, and Federico Saldana confirmed he had been arrested multiple times, including for the smuggling of smuggled persons and smuggled substances. The smuggled substances arrest occurred at a checkpoint in Laredo where Federico Saldana was found to have been transporting smuggled substances in his 18-wheeler. In the meantime, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer had been unable to find the vehicle registration documents and again asked Federico Saldana where they were. Id. at 13:11:58. Federico Saldana again directed Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer to the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer consent to retrieve those documents. Id.