Ultimately, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer asked: "Do you have any objection if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck?" Federico Saldana responded he did not. Forty seconds later, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer again confirmed: "So you don't have any problems if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck?" Federico Saldana said he had no problem. While Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer did not specifically tell Federico Saldana he had a right to refuse his search request, both of Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's questions indicated Federico Saldana could either object to, or express a problem with, a search. See (finding it is "particularly worth noting" that the law enforcement specifically advised the subject he had a right to refuse consent to search his luggage). Federico Saldana, with no hesitation or seeming concern, gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer his consent to look for smuggled substances in the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. There is no indication in the record that Federico Saldana ever expressed concern or confusion over his consent. Instead, Federico Saldana remained cooperative throughout the process, including driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck to the rest stop for the K-9 dog used for searching and further driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck to the tire shop for more thorough searching. It cannot be said Federico Saldana merely submitted to overpowering authority. See (noting orderly submission to law enforcement who falsely represented to defendant they had authority to conduct search pursuant to a warrant was not valid consent); (concluding that in circumstances involving a 17-year-old boy awakened in his bedroom at 3:00 a.m. by police officers who told him "we need to go and talk," his response of "okay" was not regarded as consent but a "mere submission to authority"). In sum, Federico Saldana's consent was not the product of coercion.