As noted above, Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. challenges the stop of his white Malibu sedan by United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, arguing that "the factors known to Agent Jorge Luis Trevino at the time of the stop of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle fall short of reasonable suspicion as required by the." (Dkt. No. 35, at 3). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. therefore moves to suppress the evidence resulting from said stop. ( Id. ). Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. instead challenges the traffic stop performed by Officer Reymundo Reyes of the Freer Police Department, claiming "that the stop was illegal or a pretextual stop" and that "Officer Reymundo Reyes overstepped the scope of the stop and the nature of the interrogation that comes with a traffic stop," asserting that "all statements obtained by the Government should be suppressed along with any evidence obtained therefrom." (Dkt. No. 39, at 2). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. also claims that, while he "was in Government 'custody and control,' agents of the Government obtained written and oral statements from him in violation of his right to counsel" because of the fact that there was no "probable cause to arrest him . . . ." ( Id. ). Although "a defendant normally bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the challenged search or seizure was unconstitutional,"  "when the government searches or seizes a defendant without a warrant, the government bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the search or seizure was constitutional." . Therefore, in the instant case, because both Defendants were seized without a warrant, the government bears the burden of proving that the stops were constitutional. Because of the distinct analysis required for each of the Defendants' motions to suppress, the undersigned, J. Scott Hacker, will address each in turn. Whether United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had reasonable suspicion to stop RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan is the first issue to be addressed.