Federico Saldana is a defendant.

ORDER

BE IT REMEMBERED on the 12th day of February 2015, the Court in the above-styled cause held a hearing in the above-styled cause and the parties appeared in person and through counsel. Before the Court in the above-styled cause are Federico Saldana's motion to suppress #24, and the United States Government's Response #28. Having reviewed the documents, the evidence presented at the hearing, the arguments of counsel, and the governing law, the Court in the above-styled cause now enters the following opinion and order DENYING the motion.

Background

Three Williamson County Sheriff's Office officials who participated in Federico Saldana's stop and the subsequent search of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck he was driving on the day in question testified at the hearing. Their testimony, along with the Court in the above-styled cause's review of the Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording submitted as evidence at the hearing, establishes the following facts:

On November 24, 2014, Williamson County Sheriff's Office detectives Gary Haston and Heather Vargas were traveling northbound on Interstate 35. Gary Haston, a veteran narcotics investigator with 17 years of experience and who has participated in hundreds of drug interdiction cases, was teaching Heather Vargas, a relative newcomer to the narcotics division, drug interdiction techniques. At some point, their attention was drawn to the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck transporting a scissor lift. In particular, Gary Haston noticed the license plates for both the truck and the trailer were newly registered. A records check showed the trailer's license plate had been issued in Laredo four days earlier on November 20, 2014, and the registered owner was "Daniel Martin Huerta." The 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana's license plate had been registered in San Antonio on July 31, 2014, and its registered owner was "Daniel A. Huerta."

Gary Haston testified to a number of other observations he made. He noticed the scissor lift had received a new paint job and observed the battery charger area had a new over-coating of paint. See Def. Ex. 2. Gary Haston and Heather Vargas also observed the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana was outfitted with what he considered over-sized tires and after-market rims, which he found atypical for 2008 Chevrolet trucks pulling a heavy piece of machinery. See Def. Ex. 1. Gary Haston and Heather Vargas also testified that in his experience large, after-market rims are often used to hide loads of smuggled substances. Gary Haston and Heather Vargas further noted two pieces of steel had been placed under the wheels of the scissor lift, which Gary Haston and Heather Vargas interpreted to mean the scissor lift would be on the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck for a long time—consistent, according to Gary Haston and Heather Vargas, with suspicions of drug trafficking. See Def. Ex. 2.

According to Williamson County Sheriff's Office, the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana was traveling at approximately 75 miles per hour, and it changed lanes multiple times in an unsafe manner. Williamson County Sheriff's Office described the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana as both following vehicles at an unsafe distance in the lane it occupied, and changing lanes into tight spaces where the trailing car in the lane into which the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana had just moved had to brake to avoid running into the back of the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Williamson County Sheriff's Office referenced two near-collisions he witnessed. Based on these observations, Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office contacted a patrol deputy in a marked unit, specifically Josiah Bennett's patrol car, to conduct a traffic stop on Interstate 35.

At approximately 12:59 p.m., Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer, responding to the traffic violation information provided by Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office, pulled up behind the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana traveling in the far right lane. See United States Government Ex. 1, Clip 1 at 12:59. Gary Haston testified that he could not recall whether Gary Haston relayed his drug suspicions at this time, but Gary Haston assumed the stop related to drugs because he was familiar with Gary Haston's work as a narcotics investigator. The flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck at one point momentarily veered onto Interstate 35 before returning inside the lane. Id. at 12:59:21. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer initiated a traffic stop on Interstate 35, and the driver stepped out of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana, meeting Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer to the right of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana away from traffic. At 13:01:10. The driver identified himself as Federico Saldana. Federico Saldana indicated he was a truck driver by trade but was not used to driving this sort of truck and trailer combination. When asked who the owner of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck were, Federico Saldana was not able to easily recall the owner's name but did indicate—although the audio from Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording is not entirely clear—the owner's first name was "Daniel." Id. at 13:02:07.

A few minutes after the traffic stop on Interstate 35, Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording and Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer arrived on the scene.  Under questioning conducted by Gary Haston, Federico Saldana told the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer he lived in Laredo and  was driving the scissor lift to Dallas for repairs as a favor to Daniel Martin Huerta. Federico Saldana stated he was being paid $300 for the job. Federico Saldana did not know the exact address in Dallas where he was to take the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana but claimed the plan was for him to call Daniel Martin Huerta upon arrival in Dallas for the precise address. Approximately six minutes after the traffic stop on Interstate 35, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer informed Federico Saldana he was going to give him a warning based on the traffic violation and indicated he would need the vehicle registration of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana to complete the paperwork. Id. at 13:06:10-45. Federico Saldana stated he had identifying information for Daniel A. Huerta in the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana, and Federico Saldana gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer consent to retrieve this information from inside the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. Id. at 13:06:42. Over the next few minutes, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer continued to gather information from Federico Saldana while Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer looked for the vehicle registration documents in Josiah Bennett's patrol car. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer inquired about Federico Saldana's criminal history, and Federico Saldana confirmed he had been arrested multiple times, including for the smuggling of smuggled persons and smuggled substances. The smuggled substances arrest occurred at a checkpoint in Laredo where Federico Saldana was found to have been transporting smuggled substances in his 18-wheeler. In the meantime, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer had been unable to find the vehicle registration documents and again asked Federico Saldana where they were. Id. at 13:11:58. Federico Saldana again directed Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer to the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer consent to retrieve those documents. Id.

As Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer gathered more information, his suspicions of drug trafficking heightened, and he told Federico Saldana that based on what Federico Saldana was telling him, he believed there was smuggled substances somewhere on the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer strongly encouraged Federico Saldana to tell the officers if there were any smuggled substances. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer told Federico Saldana "this is gonna be a turning point in life for you, and it's gonna start right now." Id. at 13:13:09. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer told Federico Saldana "we're gonna find the smuggled substances, and your cooperation is going to matter a lot." Id. at 13:13:30. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer then informed Federico Saldana he wanted to know two things: (1) how much smuggled substances there was, and (2) where Federico Saldana was taking the smuggled substances. Id. at 13:13:37. Federico Saldana responded: "There ain't no smuggled substances." Id. at 13:13:50. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer noted Federico Saldana was evincing signs of nervousness and reiterated "it's going to be a lot less stressful for you if you start cooperating from this point." Id. at 13:14:09. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer cautioned Federico Saldana that "if there's a load of smuggled substances, we're gonna find it." Id. at 13:14:15. Again, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer asked "how much is there? Cause you know I know." Id. at 13:14:20. Federico Saldana again responded: "There's no smuggled substances." Id. at 13:14:25. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer asked if there was specific type of smuggled substance or methamphetamine, and Federico Saldana said no. Id. at 13:14:30. At this point, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer asked "Do you have any objection if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck?" Id. at 13:14:38. Federico Saldana said "no." Id. at 13:14:40. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer followed up: "And we're not gonna find anything? Cause I think we're gonna find it." Id. at 13:14:45. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer gave Federico Saldana another opportunity to cooperate, telling him "now is the time. Cause if you tell me it's not here, and we find it? Then we're already off on the wrong foot, do you understand?" Id. at 13:15:00. Federico Saldana confirmed he understood, and Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer asked: "Is that the way we're gonna go?" Id. at 13:15:07. Federico Saldana said "yes sir." Id. at 13:15:09. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer clarified, "so you don't have any problems if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck?" Id. at 13:15:17. Federico Saldana immediately responded: "No problem." Id. at 13:15:20.

Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording proceeded to make arrangements to have a K-9 dog used for searching meet them to conduct a search. Over the next few minutes, Williamson County Sheriff's Office started searching in and around the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. Williamson County Sheriff's Office reapproached Federico Saldana and informed him they were bringing in a K-9 dog used for searching for a search. Williamson County Sheriff's Office also asked Federico Saldana again about his criminal history and learned Federico Saldana served 9 years in federal prison. Federico Saldana also claimed he completed probation 3 years prior.

After more questions, Deputy Jason Cox and Gary Haston had Federico Saldana drive the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck a few hundred yards to a rest area where it would be safer to conduct the search. Id. at 13:30:01-32:15. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer continued searching the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck themselves as they awaited the K-9 dog used for searching, which arrived roughly ten minutes later. Gov't Ex. 1, Clip 2 at 13:41:25. The K-9 handler, Josiah Bennett, testified he understood from Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer that Federico Saldana had given consent to search, and he therefore proceeded to have the K-9 dog used for searching search the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. Josiah Bennett next had the K-9 dog used for searching enter the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana through the front and rear doors on the driver side from approximately 1:45:55 to 1:46:45. Id. at 13:45:55-46:45. Josiah Bennett took the K-9 dog used for searching back to the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana again before taking the K-9 dog used for searching to the passenger side of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. While the view is mostly obstructed, Josiah Bennett seemed to have the K-9 dog used for searching enter the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana through the front and rear doors on the passenger side from approximately 1:49:55 to 1:51:00. Id. at 13:49:55-51:00. Josiah Bennett then put the K-9 dog used for searching back in his patrol car, which is part of the Williamson County Sheriff's Office.

However, upon re-examining the provided text and the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary for accuracy in replacement:

The original text does not directly mention "the Government" or other aliases that need replacement with their full names as per the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary. The mentions of entities like "Williamson County Sheriff's Office" are already explicit and do not require replacement based on the given instructions.

Given this, the corrected approach to resolving coreferences according to the provided instructions would result in minimal changes since most references are either already explicit or do not match the aliases provided for replacement.

The mention of "Gov't" could potentially be seen as an alias for "Government," which is mapped to "United States." However, given the strict instruction to only replace exact matches and considering the context where "Gov't" is used (as part of "Gov't Ex."), it's reasonable to interpret this as an abbreviation in a legal citation rather than a direct reference to the entity that needs replacement.

Therefore, the coreference-resolved version of the input text, following the instructions precisely and making replacements only where explicitly directed by the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary, would remain largely unchanged from the original TEXT_CHUNK provided.

After more questions, Deputy Jason Cox and Gary Haston had Federico Saldana drive the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck a few hundred yards to a rest area where it would be safer to conduct the search. Id. at 13:30:01-32:15. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer continued searching the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck themselves as they awaited the K-9 dog used for searching, which arrived roughly ten minutes later. Gov't Ex. 1, Clip 2 at 13:41:25. The K-9 handler, Josiah Bennett, testified he understood from Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer that Federico Saldana had given consent to search, and he therefore proceeded to have the K-9 dog used for searching search the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. Josiah Bennett next had the K-9 dog used for searching enter the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana through the front and rear doors on the driver side from approximately 1:45:55 to 1:46:45. Id. at 13:45:55-46:45. Josiah Bennett took the K-9 dog used for searching back to the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana again before taking the K-9 dog used for searching to the passenger side of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. While the view is mostly obstructed, Josiah Bennett seemed to have the K-9 dog used for searching enter the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana through the front and rear doors on the passenger side from approximately 1:49:55 to 1:51:00. Id. at 13:49:55-51:00. Josiah Bennett then put the K-9 dog used for searching back in his patrol car, Josiah Bennett's patrol car.

Although not apparent from the Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording, according to Josiah Bennett's testimony, the K-9 dog used for searching alerted twice to the presence of narcotics. The first alert was to a set of tools on the floorboard of the front seat of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. The second alert was to clothes on the floorboard of the back seat of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana. Comparing this testimony to the Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording, the Court in the above-styled cause concludes these alerts occurred, at the latest, by 1:51:00.

After Josiah Bennett put the K-9 dog used for searching away, Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston continued searching the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck themselves looking for smuggled substances. Josiah Bennett used the K-9 dog used for searching again to search the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and the bed of the 2008 Chevrolet truck before returning the K-9 dog used for searching to Josiah Bennett's patrol car. Id. at 14:03:45-10:00. For approximately the next half hour, Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston continued examining the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Their attention increasingly focused on the scissor lift. Id. at 14:37:00. The Williamson County Sheriff's Office officers made arrangements to transport the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck to a tire shop for further investigation. They informed Federico Saldana of the plan, and he began driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck himself to the tire shop. Gov't Ex. 1, Clip 3 at 14:46:35. The Williamson County Sheriff's Office video recording ends with Federico Saldana still driving over twenty minutes later.

Sometime thereafter, the parties arrived at the tire shop. After dismantling four batteries, Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston retrieved twenty four bundles of a compressed white powder that field-tested positive for specific type of smuggled substance. Federico Saldana was then placed under arrest. At no point after Federico Saldana gave Detective Gary Haston consent to search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck did Federico Saldana revoke his consent.

Federico Saldana has moved to suppress the specific type of smuggled substance under his rights, arguing there was no reasonable suspicion to stop Federico Saldana in the first place, and contending there was no probable cause for the detention and subsequent search of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. The Court in the above-styled cause protects individuals from unreasonable searches and seizures; traffic stops are considered seizures within the meaning of the. ; . Because traffic stops are considered more similar to investigative detentions than formal arrests, Court in the above-styled cause analyze the legality of traffic stops for purposes under the standard articulated in. . This standard is a two-tiered reasonable suspicion inquiry: (1) whether the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's actions were justified at the stop's inception; and (2) whether the search or seizure was reasonably related in scope to the circumstances that justified the stop in the first place. ; . In addition, "the investigative methods employed should be the least intrusive means reasonably available to verify or dispel the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's suspicion in a short period of time." . Once a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's suspicions have been verified or dispelled, the detention during traffic stop must end unless there is additional articulable reasonable suspicion, but "at that point, continuation of the detention during traffic stop is no longer supported by the facts that justified its initiation." . Reasonable suspicion exists when the detaining Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer "can point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant the search and seizure." (internal quotation omitted).

I.  First Prong of the Terry Test: Reasonable suspicion existed for the traffic stop

Federico Saldana  first disputes the basis for the traffic stop, relying on the fact  Federico Saldana did not commit any traffic violations in the presence of  Williamson County Sheriff's Office who pulled him over. "For a traffic stop to be  justified at its inception, an officer must have an objectively  reasonable suspicion that some sort of illegal activity, such as a  traffic violation, occurred, or is about to occur, before stopping  the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana." .  The Court in the above-styled cause has stated that in making a reasonable suspicion  inquiry, a court "must look at the totality of the  circumstances of each case to see whether the detaining officer has  a particularized and objective basis for suspecting legal  wrongdoing." (internal quotations omitted). Reasonable suspicion can vest through  the collective knowledge of the officers in a search and seizure  operation. ,  .  The collective knowledge theory for reasonable suspicion applies so  long as there is    "some degree of communication" between the acting officer  and the officer who has knowledge of the necessary facts, utilizing the computer checks run by Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer.

Here, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer testified it observed Federico Saldana having trouble maintaining the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck carrying a piece of heavy machinery in a single lane, and that Federico Saldana was changing lanes in an unsafe manner resulting in two near-collisions. Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer directly relayed this information to Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer, and Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer proceeded to locate Federico Saldana and conduct a traffic stop on Interstate 35. Therefore, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer had an objectively reasonable suspicion Federico Saldana had committed multiple traffic violations as witnessed by Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer and Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer. In addition, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer, upon locating the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck, witnessed the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck veering onto Interstate 35 before it initiated the traffic stop.

II. Second Prong of the Terry Test: The detention during traffic stop was reasonably related in scope to the circumstances that justified the traffic violation.

Saldana also contends the officers' prolonged detention of him exceeded the scope of the reason for the traffic stop. Generally, the "detention must be temporary and last no longer than is necessary to effectuate the purpose of the stop . . . ." In the course of effectuating the stop, a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer may permissibly examine the driver's license of Federico Saldana and vehicle registration of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and run a computer checks run by Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer check on them to investigate whether the driver has any outstanding warrants and if the vehicle is stolen. A Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer may also ask the driver about the purpose and itinerary of his trip. Indeed, the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's questions need not even be related to the purpose of the traffic stop, since "detention, not questioning, is the evil at which Terry's second prong is aimed."

Although a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's inquiry may be wide-ranging, once all relevant computer checks run by Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer have come back clean, there is no more reasonable suspicion, and, as a general matter, continued questioning conducted by Gary Haston thereafter unconstitutionally prolongs the detention during traffic stop. ; see also ; . A recognized exception to this rule is that if additional reasonable suspicion, such as suspicions of drug trafficking, arises in the course of the traffic stop on Interstate 35 and before the initial purpose of the traffic stop, namely the traffic violation, has been fulfilled, then the detention during traffic stop may continue until the new reasonable suspicion has been dispelled or confirmed. See ; .

In this case, Federico Saldana came to a stop on Interstate 35 at approximately 1:01:10. Williamson County Sheriff's Office spent the first five minutes after the stop asking Federico Saldana reasonable questions about ownership of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and the nature of Federico Saldana's trip. While Williamson County Sheriff's Office attempted to locate the vehicle registration of the 2008 Chevrolet truck indicating ownership of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck, Williamson County Sheriff's Office initiated his own line of questioning. At 1:14:40, Federico Saldana said he had no objection to the officers searching his 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck and confirmed at 1:15:20 he had no problems with the search. Put differently, less than fifteen minutes into the stop—when Williamson County Sheriff's Office had yet to locate the vehicle registration of the 2008 Chevrolet truck which would allow him to complete any traffic violation or warning paperwork—Federico Saldana had already given the officers his unequivocal consent to search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. At 1:17:20, Williamson County Sheriff's Office clarified to Federico Saldana he could not find the paperwork in the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana as Federico Saldana had indicated. United States Government, Ex. 1, Clip 1 at 13:17:20.

Considering these circumstances, the detention during traffic stop did not exceed its original scope. In a valid traffic stop on Interstate 35, a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer can request Federico Saldana's driver's license, insurance papers, vehicle registration of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana, run computer checks run by Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer thereon, and issue a citation or warning. See. Gary Haston's questioning conducted by Gary Haston occurred while Jason Cox was still in the process of gathering the relevant information to complete the warning paperwork and therefore did not extend the initial valid seizure beyond a reasonable duration. In other words, as of the time Federico Saldana gave his consent, the detention during traffic stop continued to be supported by the facts that justified the traffic violation.

Moreover, in the alternative, Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions regarding potential drug trafficking were ever-increasing as the first fifteen minutes of the stop unfolded. Indeed, Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions began before he saw Federico Saldana committing multiple traffic violations. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noticed the recently registered license plates and ran checks on them, discovering the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana's license plate had been registered in Laredo four days earlier to Daniel Martin Huerta while the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana's license plate had been registered four months earlier in San Antonio to Daniel A. Huerta. Williamson County Sheriff's Office observed the erratic driving consistent with an individual perhaps unfamiliar with driving this sort of 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck combination. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noted the oversized tires and after-market rims, which he considered unusual for this type of machinery hauling. Williamson County Sheriff's Office observed a new paint job for the scissor lift and the battery charger area as well as corrugated metal plates under the tires of the scissor lift. All of these factors continued to build Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions there might be a load of smuggled substances hidden in the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana or the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions only continued to grow as he questioned Federico Saldana about his trip. Troubling statements from Federico Saldana included: (1) he was not the owner of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana or the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck; (2) he had trouble recalling the owner's name; (3) he was driving a heavy piece of machinery over 400 miles from Laredo to Dallas for repairs; (4) he did not know the exact address of his ultimate destination in Dallas; (5) he was supposed to call the owner upon arrival in Dallas to find out the actual address; (6) he was hauling the scissor lift as a favor to the owner and apparently for $300; (7) he was not used to driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck combination; and (8) he did not know the name of the owner's painting company.

As a narcotics investigator with 17 years of experience, including hundreds of interdiction cases, Williamson County Sheriff's Office strongly suspected Federico Saldana was transporting a load of smuggled substances and started inquiring into Federico Saldana's criminal history. Williamson County Sheriff's Office learned Federico Saldana had previously smuggled smuggled persons and smuggled substances using his 18-wheeler. Williamson County Sheriff's Office told Federico Saldana that he suspected Federico Saldana was again transporting smuggled substances. Williamson County Sheriff's Office urged Federico Saldana to cooperate and directly asked if he were moving smuggled substances, which Federico Saldana denied. Williamson County Sheriff's Office responded by asking if Federico Saldana objected to or had any problem with the officers searching his 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck, and Federico Saldana stated he had no objection and no problem. Taken together, from the time Williamson County Sheriff's Office stopped Federico Saldana for the traffic violations to the point where Federico Saldana gave his consent to search, additional reasonable suspicion arose for Williamson County Sheriff's Office both through his observations and conversations. Williamson County Sheriff's Office had yet to either dispel or confirm these accumulating suspicions as of that time, and he could validly prolong the detention in order to address these concerns.

III. The Consent was Voluntary and Never Revoked

The United States Government argues Federico Saldana gave his consent to Williamson County Sheriff's Office to search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck, and he never revoked that consent at any time. Therefore, according to the United States Government, none of the events after the moment of consent implicate the. "To be valid, consent to search must be free and voluntary." . The United States Government has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the consent was voluntary. . The voluntariness of consent is "a question of fact to be determined from the totality of all the circumstances." . The appropriate inquiry in determining the voluntariness of a consent is whether a reasonable person in Federico Saldana's position would have felt free to decline Williamson County Sheriff's Office's request. . In evaluating the voluntariness of consent, Court in the above-styled cause consider six factors:

(1) the voluntariness of Federico Saldana's custodial status; (2) the presence of coercive law enforcement procedures; (3) the extent and level of Federico Saldana's cooperation with the police; (4) Federico Saldana's awareness of his right to refuse to consent; (5) Federico Saldana's education and intelligence; and (6) Federico Saldana's belief that no incriminating evidence will be found.

(citations omitted). All six factors are relevant, but no single one is dispositive or controlling. Id .

In the current situation, the first factor weighs against the United States Government as Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer had temporarily detained Federico Saldana for the purpose of a traffic violation in addition to dispelling or confirming their increasing suspicions of drug trafficking as the situation evolved.

As for the second factor, there is minimal indication of coercive police procedures. The stop began as a routine traffic encounter on Interstate 35. Deputy Jason Cox and Federico Saldana engaged in a cooperative, polite conversation regarding Federico Saldana's traffic violations, the ownership of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck, and the itinerary of Federico Saldana's trip. Detective Gary Haston also asked Federico Saldana many questions, and Federico Saldana was ready and willing to answer all of them. Detective Gary Haston's manner certainly became more aggressive as his suspicions grew, but his conduct did not amount to coercion. Detective Gary Haston openly informed Federico Saldana of his belief as to the presence of smuggled substances, and Detective Gary Haston applied some pressure in attempting to elicit Federico Saldana's cooperation. For instance, Detective Gary Haston made the following statements: "this is gonna be a turning point in life for you, and it's gonna start right now"; "we're gonna find the smuggled substances, and your cooperation is going to matter a lot"; "it's going to be a lot less stressful for you if you start cooperating from this point"; "if there's a load of smuggled substances, we're gonna find it"; and "how much is there? Cause you know I know." While Federico Saldana showed signs of nervousness, he continued to answer the questions and persisted in denying the presence of any smuggled substances.

Ultimately, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer asked: "Do you have any objection if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck?" Federico Saldana responded he did not. Forty seconds later, Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer again confirmed: "So you don't have any problems if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck?" Federico Saldana said he had no problem. While Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer did not specifically tell Federico Saldana he had a right to refuse his search request, both of Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's questions indicated Federico Saldana could either object to, or express a problem with, a search. See (finding it is "particularly worth noting" that the law enforcement specifically advised the subject he had a right to refuse consent to search his luggage). Federico Saldana, with no hesitation or seeming concern, gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer his consent to look for smuggled substances in the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. There is no indication in the record that Federico Saldana ever expressed concern or confusion over his consent. Instead, Federico Saldana remained cooperative throughout the process, including driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck to the rest stop for the K-9 dog used for searching and further driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck to the tire shop for more thorough searching. It cannot be said Federico Saldana merely submitted to overpowering authority. See (noting orderly submission to law enforcement who falsely represented to defendant they had authority to conduct search pursuant to a warrant was not valid consent); (concluding that in circumstances involving a 17-year-old boy awakened in his bedroom at 3:00 a.m. by police officers who told him "we need to go and talk," his response of "okay" was not regarded as consent but a "mere submission to authority"). In sum, Federico Saldana's consent was not the product of coercion.

Moving on to the third factor, Federico Saldana was quite cooperative as he answered Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston's questions and caused them no problems. For the fourth factor, there is no indication in the record Federico Saldana was aware of his right to refuse consent. Yet while officers are not required to explicitly inform defendants of the right to refuse consent, the wording of both of Detective Gary Haston's questions regarding consent gave Federico Saldana a clear opportunity to either object to or state a problem with a search. Moreover, Federico Saldana is a previously convicted felon experienced with the criminal justice system, including having served at least 9 years in federal prison, which makes it more likely he is aware of his legal rights. Regarding the fifth factor, there is no evidence in the record demonstrating Federico Saldana's level of education. His conversations and interactions with Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston do suggest he is an individual of reasonable intelligence. Finally, with respect to the sixth factor, Federico Saldana did not testify, so it is difficult to know what his belief was concerning whether any smuggled substances would be found. He did repeatedly deny there were any smuggled substances. He also was very quick to give his consent to search, suggesting he believed Williamson County Sheriff's Office would not find any smuggled substances.

Taking all six of the factors into consideration, the Court in the above-styled cause concludes the consent was voluntary and valid, and Federico Saldana never revoked his consent even as Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording and Gary Haston increased the intrusiveness of the search. Therefore, the detention during traffic stop does not apply to the events occurring after Federico Saldana's voluntary consent.

Conclusion

Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording had reasonable suspicion Federico Saldana had committed a traffic violation when he initiated the traffic stop on Interstate 35. Within fifteen minutes—and before Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording had completed the initial purpose of the traffic stop by issuing the warning citation—Federico Saldana had voluntarily consented to a search of the 2008 Chevrolet truck driven by Federico Saldana and the flatbed trailer towed by the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Moreover, Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording and Gary Haston developed additional reasonable suspicion of potential suspicions of drug trafficking through their observations and conversations with Federico Saldana, and they had yet to dispel or confirm these suspicions as of the time Federico Saldana gave his valid consent. As such, the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officers were justified in prolonging the traffic stop during those initial fifteen minutes and through the moment of consent. Federico Saldana never revoked his consent, and Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording and Gary Haston ultimately discovered the specific type of smuggled substance. Federico Saldana's rights were not violated, and therefore his motion to suppress, Federico Saldana's motion to suppress, the smuggled substances and his statements to law enforcement after the discovery of the smuggled substances must be denied.

Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that Federico Saldana's motion to suppress is DENIED.

SIGNED this the 27th day of February 2015.
/s/  Sam Sparks
SAM  SPARKS
United States District Court JUDGE
E nd  of Document
1  The  record is not entirely clear whether Gary Haston, a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer, made the observations  described in this paragraph before or after the traffic stop.
2  The  United States Government submitted as Exhibit 1 Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording in the  form of a DVD containing Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording containing three separate but consecutive clips of the  events in question. The DVD containing Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video references time on a 24-hour clock. For  citations, Court in the above-styled cause uses the 24-hour notation. When describing the  timing    of events, however, Court in the above-styled cause will use the 12-hour clock notation.
3  The  United States Government contends Federico Saldana initially offered the name "Miguel"  as the owner before later admitting the owner's true name is  "Daniel Martin Huerta." After carefully listening to the audio from Deputy Jason Cox's patrol video recording, Court in the above-styled cause concludes, at a minimum, Federico Saldana did not say "Miguel."  Court in the above-styled cause further concludes that Federico Saldana likely said the name  "Daniel Martin Huerta."
4  provides that "an operator on a roadway divided into two or  more clearly marked lanes for traffic: (1) shall drive as nearly as  practical entirely within a single lane; and (2) may not move from  the lane unless that movement can be made safely."

