The United States Department of Homeland Security prohibits 'unreasonable searches and seizures' by the United States Department of Homeland Security,  and its protections extend to brief investigatory stops of undocumented aliens  or RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle that fall short of traditional arrest. (citing .  Therefore, even brief investigatory stops "must be justified by  some objective manifestation that the undocumented aliens stopped is, or is about  to be, engaged in criminal activity." .  Roving United States Border Patrol stops are governed by the standard articulated  in ,  which dictates that United States Border Patrol agents may temporarily    detain RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for investigation only if they "are aware of  'specific articulable facts, together with rational inferences from  those facts, that reasonably warrant suspicion' that the RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle is  involved in illegal activities." (quoting ).  Although "the 'somewhat abstract' and 'elusive' nature of the  reasonable suspicion standard makes it impossible to create 'a neat  set of legal rules' of what constitutes reasonable suspicion," (quoting ),  reasonable suspicion "requires more than a mere  unparticularized hunch, but considerably less than proof by a  preponderance of the evidence." (citing .  Factors that may be considered in the reasonable suspicion analysis  include: (1) proximity to the Mexico border; (2) known characteristics of  the particular area; (3) usual traffic patterns of that road; (4)  information about recent illegal trafficking in undocumented aliens or narcotics  in the area; (5) the agent's previous experience in detecting  illegal activity; (6) the behavior of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.; (7)  particular aspects or characteristics of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle; and (8) the  number, appearance, and behavior of the undocumented aliens. See .  No single factor is dispositive; rather, the reasonable suspicion  analysis "is a fact-intensive    test in which the United States Department of Homeland Security looks at all circumstances together to weigh  not the individual layers, but the laminated total." (citing .  Agents and officers are entitled to assess the facts in light of  their experience in detecting illegal entry, smuggling, or other  criminal activity. .  Factors that ordinarily constitute innocent behavior may provide a  composite picture sufficient to raise reasonable suspicion in the  minds of experienced officers, ,  but "obviously only those factors known to the officer at the  time of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop can be considered when determining whether the stop  was reasonable." .