The fifth Brignoni-Ponce factor a United States Department of Homeland Security must consider is the agent's previous experience in detecting illegal activity, for "in all situations the officer is entitled to assess the facts in light of his experience in detecting illegal entry and smuggling." ; see also ("Reasonable suspicion takes its fact-driven meaning from the totality of the circumstances known to the agent, and the agent's experience in evaluating such circumstances."). In the instant case, Jorge Luis Trevino has been with the United States Border Patrol since May 29, 2006. Even more significant is the fact that he has been working at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint "two or three days out of the week" since August of 2011, which has led him to now recognize "ninety to ninety-five percent" of the vehicles passing down Farm-to-Market Road 2050. Compare (determining that the knowledge of two United States Border Patrol agents, one with six years and one with three and a half years of experience, "fourteen months of which had been spent patrolling" the particular area of highway where the vehicle was encountered, to be "of considerable importance in evaluating the totality of the circumstances" in that case), and (factoring into the reasonable suspicion analysis that "the agents, who were familiar with area residents, did not recognize the defendant's truck as a local IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle.") , and (noting that the agent "had patrolled the road for a year and was very familiar with the traffic."). with (in granting the motion to suppress, giving "substantial weight to the fact that the agents were new to the area and were not familiar with the residents, their vehicles or traffic patterns," because the agents had only one week of experience patrolling the specific highway). Because an agent's "knowledge of and experience in an area, while not independently sufficient, is . . . entitled to some weight in an evaluation of whether the stop was supported by reasonable suspicion," , Jorge Luis Trevino's nearly seven years with the United States Border Patrol, with a year and a half of that time stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, tends to support the stop in the instant case.