Although RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could have conceivably been visitors to one of the many ranches or to the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino did not pull over RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle until "a mile and a half south of the wind farm," past San Pablo Road, and therefore RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had already passed a number of these legitimate destinations on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 by the time United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino initiated the stop, as they were already around fourteen miles down Farm-to-Market Road 2050. However, in addition to the legitimate destinations located on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, the road is an ideal smuggling route, such that "if someone were to want to avoid checkpoints, they would go U.S. Highway 59, south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, . . . over to U.S. Highway 359," and then north on Highway 16, which allows access to "major highways going north" to San Antonio, Houston, and beyond. Although a smuggler can simply drive "the loop," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino testified that there has recently been a surge of "drop-offs on Farm-to-Market Road 2050," where smugglers drop undocumented aliens off along Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and have the undocumented aliens walk east towards Highway 16 to be again picked up by a vehicle heading north. The testimony provided in this case by the United States Department of Homeland Security and by IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. indicated that Farm-to-Market Road 2050 is frequently and increasingly used to circumvent the checkpoints on both U.S. Highway 59 and U.S. Highway 359, and "it is well established that a road's reputation as a smuggling route adds to the reasonableness of the agent's suspicion," even if the road is used for other lawful purposes. (quoting (similarly to the present case, the testimony indicating "that to get to San Angelo from Del Rio, and avoid the checkpoint on Highway 277, one would take Ranch Road 2523 north to Highway 377, then go west on Highway 377 until it joins Highway 277 at a point north of (beyond) the checkpoint, and then turn north and continue thus on Highway 277."); see also (per curiam) (finding that the "numerous seizures of aliens" in the "particular area" where the ranch was located "weighed in favor of reasonable suspicion"); (United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino found that "The ranch road was popular with smugglers because it allowed drivers to travel to northern Texas while avoiding United States Border Patrol checkpoints on U.S. Highway 59 and U.S. Highway 359."); (United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino also stated that "That smugglers regularly use the road is relevant to the totality of the circumstances evaluation . . . .") ; (finding that "the road in question," a farm-to-market road intersecting with Highway 16, to be "notorious as a popular smuggling route," which added to the reasonable suspicion for the stop); (giving weight to the fact that "the road on which the vehicle was driving was known to the agents" "as a convenient route used by smugglers of undocumented persons for purposes of bypassing a permanent federal checkpoint").