As noted above, Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. challenges the stop of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle by Officer Reymundo Reyes, arguing that "the factors known to Officer Reymundo Reyes at the time of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop fall short of reasonable suspicion as required by the." (Dkt. No. 39, at 2). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. therefore moves to suppress the evidence resulting from said stop. ( Id. ). Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. instead challenges the traffic stop performed by United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, claiming "that the stop was illegal or a pretextual stop" and that "United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino overstepped the scope of the stop and the nature of the interrogation that comes with a traffic stop," asserting that "all statements obtained by the United States Department of Homeland Security should be suppressed along with any evidence obtained therefrom." (Dkt. No. 35, at 3). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. also claims that, while he "was in United States Department of Homeland Security 'custody and control,' agents of the United States Department of Homeland Security obtained written and oral statements from him in violation of his right to counsel" because of the fact that there was no "probable cause to arrest him . . . ." ( Id. ). Although "a defendant normally bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the challenged search or seizure was unconstitutional," , "when the United States Department of Homeland Security searches or seizes a defendant without a warrant, the United States Department of Homeland Security bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the search or seizure was constitutional." . Therefore, in the instant case, because both Defendants were seized without a warrant, the United States Department of Homeland Security bears the burden of proving that the stops were constitutional. Because of the distinct analysis required for each of the Defendants' motions to suppress, the United States Department of Homeland Security will address each in turn. Whether United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had reasonable suspicion to stop RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle is the first issue to be addressed.