RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR., who is associated with RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, is a defendant.
IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., who is associated with IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, is a defendant.

REPORT  & RECOMMENDATION OF THE United States Department of Homeland Security

Currently pending before the United States Department of Homeland Security are Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s "Motion to Suppress," (Dkt. No. 35), and Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s "Amended Motion to Suppress Written and Oral Statements," (Dkt. No. 39), filed April 1, 2013 and April 17, 2013, respectively. On March 5, 2013, Defendants RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. were indicted for transporting undocumented aliens within the United States, and for conspiracy to do the same, in violation of . (See Dkt. No. 21). These indictments stemmed from a series of vehicle stops conducted on February 4, 2013. (See Dkt. No. 35, at 1-2; Dkt. No. 39, at 1-2). Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. contends that the stop of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle by a United States Border Patrol agent was not supported by reasonable suspicion and thereby "inconsistent with the mandates of the ," thus arguing that the fruits of his illegal stop should be suppressed. (Dkt. No. 35, at 3). In Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s motion to suppress, he focuses on his vehicle stop conducted by an officer of the Freer Police Department, asserting that the officer "overstepped the scope of the stop and the nature of the interrogation that comes with a traffic stop." (Dkt. No. 39, at 2). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. also claims that his subsequent arrest was not supported by probable cause, and therefore seeks to have "any statements or evidence obtained as a result of the warrantless arrest . . . suppressed." (Id.). The United States Department of Homeland Security held a hearing on the pending motions to suppress on May 2, 2013 and May 3, 2013, where the following facts were elicited.

I. BACKGROUND

On the evening of February 4, 2013, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, "Echo 43," on U.S. Highway 59 outside of Freer, Texas. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:12 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). On that evening, he was "assigned to checkpoint and processing," meaning that he was both "inspecting the vehicles on U.S. Highway 59 going towards . . . Corpus or Houston or Freer, Texas" and also "processing some undocumented . . . aliens . . . at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:08 p.m.). "While he was processing . . . inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, . . . the primary agent at that time," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, "called out two vehicles going southbound, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle." (Id. at 2:09 p.m.). The two vehicles, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, had exited off of U.S. Highway 59 to the right and turned southbound onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a road "adjacent to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," about "150 feet . . . 200 feet, more or less," from the Freer Immigration Checkpoint office. (Id. at 2:11, 2:15 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 1).

There is no text to resolve. The TEXT_CHUNK provided does not contain any actual text that needs coreference resolution based on the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary. It appears to be a placeholder or an instruction rather than an actual text excerpt from a legal document that requires entity replacement.

To proceed with the task as instructed, I would need a valid TEXT_CHUNK containing aliases or references to organizations that can be mapped to their canonical names using the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary. Without this, there is no text to resolve or modify according to the provided instructions and mappings.

On the evening of February 4, 2013, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, "Echo 43," on U.S. Highway 59 outside of Freer, Texas. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:12 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). On that evening, he was "assigned to checkpoint and processing," meaning that he was both "inspecting the vehicles on U.S. Highway 59 going towards . . . Corpus or Houston or Freer, Texas" and also "processing some undocumented . . . aliens . . . at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:08 p.m.). "While he was processing . . . inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, . . . the primary agent at that time," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, "called out two vehicles going southbound, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle." (Id. at 2:09 p.m.). The two vehicles, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, had exited off of U.S. Highway 59 to the right and turned southbound onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a road "adjacent to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," about "150 feet . . . 200 feet, more or less," from the Freer Immigration Checkpoint office. (Id. at 2:11, 2:15 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 1).

Given that "a white one" maps to "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle", "a black one" maps to "IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle", and considering other mappings:

On the evening of February 4, 2013, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, "Echo 43," on U.S. Highway 59 outside of Freer, Texas. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:12 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). On that evening, he was "assigned to checkpoint and processing," meaning that he was both "inspecting the vehicles on U.S. Highway 59 going towards . . . Corpus or Houston or Freer, Texas" and also "processing some undocumented . . . aliens . . . at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:08 p.m.). "While he was processing . . . inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, . . . the primary agent at that time," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, "called out two vehicles going southbound, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle." (Id. at 2:09 p.m.). The two vehicles, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, had exited off of U.S. Highway 59 to the right and turned southbound onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a road "adjacent to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," about "150 feet . . . 200 feet, more or less," from the Freer Immigration Checkpoint office. (Id. at 2:11, 2:15 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 1).

The stop occurred near the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, where Jorge Luis Trevino observed RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. The vehicles were heading towards Highway 16, attempting to avoid the Hebbronville Checkpoint. Officer Reymundo Reyes had previously stopped IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. for a traffic violation on Farm-to-Market Road 2050.

"The stop occurred near the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, where United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino observed RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle were heading towards Highway 16, attempting to avoid the Hebbronville Checkpoint. Officer Reymundo Reyes had previously stopped IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. for a traffic violation on Farm-to-Market Road 2050."

On the evening of February 4, 2013, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, "Echo 43," on U.S. Highway 59 outside of Freer, Texas. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:12 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). On that evening, he was "assigned to checkpoint and processing," meaning that he was both "inspecting the vehicles on U.S. Highway 59 going towards . . . Corpus or Houston or Freer, Texas" and also "processing some undocumented . . . aliens . . . at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:08 p.m.). "While he was processing . . . inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, . . . the primary agent at that time," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, "called out RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle going southbound." (Id. at 2:09 p.m.). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had exited off of U.S. Highway 59 to the right and turned southbound onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a road "adjacent to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," about "150 feet . . . 200 feet, more or less," from the Freer Immigration Checkpoint office. (Id. at 2:11, 2:15 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 1).

Given that no other replacements are needed according to RESOLVED_ENTITIES:

On the evening of February 4, 2013, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, "Echo 43," on U.S. Highway 59 outside of Freer, Texas. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:12 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). On that evening, he was "assigned to checkpoint and processing," meaning that he was both "inspecting the vehicles on U.S. Highway 59 going towards . . . Corpus or Houston or Freer, Texas" and also "processing some undocumented . . . aliens . . . at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:08 p.m.). "While he was processing . . . inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, . . . the primary agent at that time," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, "called out RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle going southbound." (Id. at 2:09 p.m.). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had exited off of U.S. Highway 59 to the right and turned southbound onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a road "adjacent to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," about "150 feet . . . 200 feet, more or less," from the Freer Immigration Checkpoint office. (Id. at 2:11, 2:15 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 1).

On the evening of February 4, 2013, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, "Echo 43," on U.S. Highway 59 outside of Freer, Texas. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:12 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). On that evening, he was "assigned to checkpoint and processing," meaning that he was both "inspecting the vehicles on U.S. Highway 59 going towards . . . Corpus or Houston or Freer, Texas" and also "processing some undocumented . . . aliens . . . at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:08 p.m.). "While he was processing . . . inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, . . . the primary agent at that time," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, "called out RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle going southbound." (Id. at 2:09 p.m.). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had exited off of U.S. Highway 59 to the right and turned southbound onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a road "adjacent to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," about "150 feet . . . 200 feet, more or less," from the Freer Immigration Checkpoint office. (Id. at 2:11, 2:15 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 1).

After United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino alerted to the two vehicles, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino decided to go look into RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, because lately the United States Border Patrol agents have noticed "a lot of drop-offs on Farm-to-Market Road 2050," where "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle . . . drop the undocumented aliens off . .    . between the Freer Immigration Checkpoint and Bruni" so that the undocumented aliens can "then . . . walk east from Farm-to-Market Road 2050 all the way to Highway 16, and then they get picked up somewhere along Highway 16, and . . . go to Houston or San Antonio." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:09 p.m.). These drop-offs are done "to avoid the two checkpoints," the Freer Immigration Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 59 and the Hebbronville Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 359. (Id. at 2:12 p.m.). A person could also drive "U.S. Highway 59 and Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and U.S. Highway 359" without encountering a checkpoint, because although Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 59 to the west of Freer Immigration Checkpoint, Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 359 to the east of the Hebbronville Checkpoint, such that "if someone were to want to avoid checkpoints, they would go U.S. Highway 59, south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and then over to U.S. Highway 359," which thereafter connects with Highway 16, allowing access to Houston or San Antonio to the north. (Id. at 2:12-2:13, 2:33, 2:58-2:59 p.m.).

Replaced "Agent Rodriguez" with "IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR." and "Agent Trevino" with "Jorge Luis Trevino". The correct replacement for "Agent Rodriguez" is indeed "IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR." based on the provided RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary.

After United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino alerted to the two vehicles, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino decided to go look into RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, because lately the United States Border Patrol agents have noticed "a lot of drop-offs on Farm-to-Market Road 2050," where "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle . . . drop the undocumented aliens off . .    . between the Freer Immigration Checkpoint and Bruni" so that the undocumented aliens can "then . . . walk east from Farm-to-Market Road 2050 all the way to Highway 16, and then they get picked up somewhere along Highway 16, and . . . go to Houston or San Antonio." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:09 p.m.). These drop-offs are done "to avoid the two checkpoints," the Freer Immigration Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 59 and the Hebbronville Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 359. (Id. at 2:12 p.m.). A person could also drive "the route avoiding checkpoints via Farm-to-Market Road 2050, U.S. Highway 59, and U.S. Highway 359" without encountering a checkpoint, because although Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 59 to the west of Freer Immigration Checkpoint, Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 359 to the east of the Hebbronville Checkpoint, such that "if someone were to want to avoid checkpoints, they would go U.S. Highway 59, south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and then over to U.S. Highway 359," which thereafter connects with Highway 16, allowing access to Houston or San Antonio to the north. (Id. at 2:12-2:13, 2:33, 2:58-2:59 p.m.).

United States Border Patrol should be replaced with United States Border Patrol. The correct replacement for "United States Border Patrol agents" is indeed "United States Border Patrol" based on the provided RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary.

After United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino alerted to the two vehicles, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino decided to go look into RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, because lately United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino and United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides have noticed "a lot of drop-offs on Farm-to-Market Road 2050," where "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle with undocumented aliens . . . drop the undocumented aliens off . .    . between the Freer Immigration Checkpoint and Bruni" so that the undocumented aliens can "then . . . walk east from Farm-to-Market Road 2050 all the way to Highway 16, and then they get picked up somewhere along Highway 16, and . . . go to Houston or San Antonio." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:09 p.m.). These drop-offs are done "to avoid the two checkpoints," the Freer Immigration Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 59 and the Hebbronville Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 359. (Id. at 2:12 p.m.). A person could also drive "the route avoiding checkpoints via Farm-to-Market Road 2050, U.S. Highway 59, and U.S. Highway 359" without encountering a checkpoint, because although Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 59 to the west of Freer Immigration Checkpoint, Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 359 to the east of the Hebbronville Checkpoint, such that "if someone were to want to avoid checkpoints, they would go U.S. Highway 59, south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and then over to U.S. Highway 359," which thereafter connects with Highway 16, allowing access to Houston or San Antonio to the north. (Id. at 2:12-2:13, 2:33, 2:58-2:59 p.m.).

After United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino alerted to the two vehicles, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino decided to go look into RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, because lately United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino and United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides have noticed "a lot of drop-offs on Farm-to-Market Road 2050," where "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle . . . drop the undocumented aliens off . .    . between the checkpoint and Bruni" so that the undocumented aliens can "then . . . walk east from Farm-to-Market Road 2050 all the way to Highway 16, and then they get picked up somewhere along Highway 16, and . . . go to Houston or San Antonio." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:09 p.m.). These drop-offs are done "to avoid the two checkpoints," the Freer Immigration Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 59 and the Hebbronville Checkpoint on U.S. Highway 359. (Id. at 2:12 p.m.). A person could also drive "the route avoiding checkpoints via Farm-to-Market Road 2050, U.S. Highway 59, and U.S. Highway 359" without encountering a checkpoint, because although Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 59 to the west of Freer Immigration Checkpoint, Farm-to-Market Road 2050 intersects U.S. Highway 359 to the east of the Hebbronville Checkpoint, such that "if someone were to want to avoid checkpoints, they would go U.S. Highway 59, south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and then over to U.S. Highway 359," which thereafter connects with Highway 16, allowing access to Houston or San Antonio to the north. (Id. at 2:12-2:13, 2:33, 2:58-2:59 p.m.).

Agent Jorge Luis Trevino further testified that Farm-to-Market Road 2050 is otherwise "just ranches," so the "only vehicles . . . going southbound and northbound on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 are . . . oilfield trucks, tankers, utility trucks, Ford F-150s, Ford F-250s —that's what most of the ranchers use." (Id. at 2:14-2:15 p.m.). He noted that it was "very uncommon" for multiple cars to be turning down Farm-to-Market Road 2050 together, because vehicles on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 are "mostly ranchers and oil trucks, and if you're going to see a truck in tandem, it's going to be an oil field truck." (Id. at 2:16, 3:30 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino acknowledged that there are also "small cars" on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 due to the presence of a "wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050" on the road, but stated that although United States Border Patrol agents "don't know the people" in those cars, they "know the vehicles, because they drive every single day to work." (Id. at 2:16-2:17 p.m.). Those employees often drive "through the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, and as soon as they get inspected, they turn around and go back on Farm-to-Market Road 2050." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:17 p.m.). When asked what percentage of the vehicles on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 he recognizes, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino stated that "ninety, ninety-five percent" of the vehicles are "farmers and oil field workers." (Id. at 2:17-2:18 p.m.). Those vehicles that he does not recognize he will "go out and at least take a look at them." (Id. at 2:18 P.m.).

Agent Jorge Luis Trevino went to follow RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle "around 6:00 p.m.," and by the time he caught up to RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle "enough to . . . make . . . observations" and run any license plates, they were "about . . . ten miles" down Farm-to-Market Road 2050. (Id. at 2:20, 2:21, 2:53 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:06 p.m.). As he approached, the two vehicles were driving "in tandem . . . one in the front, one in the back," with IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle behind RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:53, 2:55 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino followed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for "around five minutes," noticing the vehicle "going often off the shoulder." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:08, 1:13 p.m.). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle did not appear to be a "work truck," and also "had a camper," either "dark blue or black" in color, which are commonly used to transport undocumented aliens. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:15, 2:19, 2:28, 3:22 p.m.). He "ran the plate and the plate came back probably within a minute," registered to someone in Corinth, Texas, "somewhere not close to Laredo, Texas, somewhere north," "probably north of San Antonio," but "nowhere close to here." (Id. at 2:53-2:54 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:07 p.m.).

Agent Jorge Luis Trevino then made the decision to pass IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and follow RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, but since IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had "slowed down when he was behind it," RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was no longer in view, and was instead "about two miles ahead." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:08 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino sped up, nearing eighty miles per hour, until he was positioned behind RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. (Id. at 1:09 p.m.). During his testimony, he again noted that there are "hardly . . . any passenger vehicles out there," because "there's no . . . reason" for a vehicle to be on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "unless you own a ranch out there . . . or you work for an oil company, inspecting the oil mills." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:19 p.m.). He explained that, due to the ranches and the oil fields, "if you have a small car and if you go off road, . . . you're going to end up losing a tire or a bumper." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:11-1:12 p.m.). The smaller cars that the United States Border Patrol agents do see are "the same people," the owners of the various ranches on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and the employees of the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and "they go through the checkpoint" on U.S. Highway 59 and then turn around before heading down Farm-to-Market Road 2050 to avoid being followed by any United States Border Patrol agents. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:18 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:12-1:13 p.m.). Although United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino testified that he does not know the owners of the vehicles that go to the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, he nonetheless recognizes the vehicles "as vehicles that go to the wind farm," because "most of the wind farm vehicles have a sticker in the back," which allows United States Border Patrol agents to "identify the vehicles as being part of the wind farm . . . ." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:17 p.m.). Notably, both of the vehicles, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, lacked this sticker.

After catching up to RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and calling the license plate in to Freer Police Department, "the second vehicle came back . . . out of Dallas, Texas," as a rental car from Hertz Rental Car Company. (Id. at 2:15, 2:19, 3:32 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino explained that, "from his experience, a lot of . . . smugglers use the rental cars used by smugglers, so that if they get caught or busted, they don't lose one of their own vehicles, they lose . . . a rental car used by smugglers." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:10 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino additionally testified that he thought it "odd why those two vehicles from out of town were on this road," and it therefore appeared to him that "those vehicles . . . had ties together" and "both . . . were riding in tandem south on Farm-to-Market Road 2050." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:15-2:16, 2:27-2:28, 3:31 p.m.). The two out-of-town vehicles raised United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's suspicions because Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "doesn't go anywhere; it's just a connection between U.S. Highway 359 and U.S. Highway 59;" he therefore questioned what "two vehicles out of Dallas, Texas were doing on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 going southbound, when Dallas, Texas is northbound, north of San Antonio," noting that the most direct route to Dallas, Texas or San Antonio would be Interstate 35. (Id. at 2:18-2:19 p.m.).

Agent Jorge Luis Trevino further testified that, as he followed RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, "all of the five passengers in that vehicle were just sitting straight, just stiff, not looking, not communicating with each other." (Id. at 2:22 p.m.). Although United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino also stated that the passengers "all looked . . . packed in the vehicle," he acknowledged on cross examination that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was in fact "designed to hold that many people," with "two . . . sitting in front and three in back." (Id. at 2:24, 3:05, 3:13 p.m.). He noted that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, too, was "going on and off the road," 10 "probably about three times, two times" over "not a very far distance," and the fact that "the vehicles went off the road . . . made him believe that the drivers were nervous because he was behind them." (Id. at 2:22 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:10, 1:16 p.m.). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle also appeared to be "riding low," and "half of its passengers were wearing caps." 11 (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:22-2:23 p.m.). All of these observations were made as the "sun was going down" 12 and "from behind the vehicle," not from the side, because, as previously noted, the road consists of only two lanes. (Id. at 2:23-2:24, 3:08, 3:10, 3:12 p.m.).

During the cross examination of United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, a more detailed description of Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and its surroundings was elicited. Mills Bennett Road is a "dirt road" which, "probably about five miles, six miles, south of the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," intersects Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and travels eastward. (Id. at 2:34, 2:36 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:06 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Exs. 1, 12). The entrance and office of the aforementioned wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050 is on the west side of Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "between twelve and fifteen miles" from the checkpoint on U.S. Highway 59. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:39 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Exs. 14-16). The windmills themselves extend out to the west of Farm-to-Market Road 2050 across various ranches. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:43 p.m.). San Pablo Road is south of, but "really close to, the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050," and is "another road that goes to the east off of Farm-to-Market Road 2050." (Id. at 2:41-2:42 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Exs. 17-18). Also "right around" and slightly south of the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050 is the "Moglia Ranch House", as well as the "Stag Ranch Trailer". (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:45-2:46 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g. Def. Exs. 19-20). Farther south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050 is "Santo Nino Road, also known as Dinn Ranch," which also extends to the east. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:47 p.m.; see also May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Exs. 1, 21). Both San Pablo Road and Santo Nino Road extend to Highway 16, providing vehicle access the entire way. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:51-2:52 p.m.).

About a mile and a half south of the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, past San Pablo Road, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino initiated a stop of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle because of all of those facts together. ( Id. at 3:00 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:09, 1:11 p.m.). As he activated his overhead lights, the vehicle once again went just a little bit off the road, just as it had several times before. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:25 p.m.). Once RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was stopped, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino approached RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and identified himself as a United States Border Patrol agent. ( Id. at 2:24-2:25 p.m.). The driver of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR., informed United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino that he was a United States citizen. ( Id. at 2:25 p.m.). When he inquired into the citizenship of the passengers, they first did not acknowledge him and continued to look straight, but ultimately acknowledged they were all Mexicans. ( Id. at 2:25-2:26 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino counted how many were in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and then asked if anyone else was in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, to which RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. responded that there were two more in the trunk. ( Id. at 2:26 p.m.). The trunk passengers also admitted that they were in the country illegally. ( Id. at 2:26-2:27 p.m.). Once United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino realized that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was transporting undocumented aliens, he put information over the United States Border Patrol radio to be on the lookout for IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, which had passed him going southbound on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 during the stop of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, since he believed that both of them were connected because the two vehicles were out of Dallas, Texas and because both the vehicles were riding in tandem south on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:27-2:28, 3:23-3:25 p.m.).

When Officer Reymundo Reyes of the Freer Police Department reported to work on the evening of February 4, 2013, he was briefed by the previous officer, who informed him that the police department had been advised of a BOLO (\"be on the lookout\") for IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. (Id. at 3:35 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes wrote the license plate number of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle on his hand at the beginning of the shift. (Id. at 3:35 p.m.). Around 8:40 p.m., an hour and a half into his shift, he \"noticed a vehicle that was passing by him\" in the same direction, traveling northbound on Highway 16. (Id. at 3:35-3:36, 3:48 p.m.). He noticed it was IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, and shortly thereafter recognized that the first three digits matched what was written on his hand. (Id. at 3:37 p.m.). He then followed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for \"three or four blocks\" until it stopped at a traffic light at the intersection of Highway 16 and U.S. Highway 59, where he was then able to confirm that the license plate matched the BOLO vehicle. (Id. at 3:37-3:38, 3:52-3:53 p.m.). The driver of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., then \"made a right turn\" at the intersection, but \"did not use a turning signal,\" so Officer Reymundo Reyes decided to conduct a traffic stop. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:38 p.m.).

Ignacio Rodriguez pulled into a nearby parking lot, where Officer Reymundo Reyes then "made contact with the driver, . . . told him who he was, what the reason for the stop was, and asked him for his driver's license and proof of insurance." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:38 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 3:23 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes testified that as IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. pulled out his wallet for his driver's license, "he was shaking, his hand was shaking a lot, and he . . . seemed extremely nervous, a little too nervous," especially considering that he had been informed that he was pulled over for failing to use a turn signal. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:39-3:40 p.m.). Although he provided a driver's license, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not immediately find any insurance; he therefore "got out of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and went around to the passenger side, and there on the passenger side was looking through the glove box," but was ultimately unable to provide any proof of insurance. ( Id. at 3:38-3:39 p.m.). As IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "came back" from the passenger side of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, Officer Reymundo Reyes asked him "if he had anything in IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, any contraband or anything like that," to which Defendant responded in Spanish, 'no I don't have anything . . . you can search it.' (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:45 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 3:33-3:35, 3:49 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes informed him to "just hold on" while he contacted Freer Police Department for a canine, 15 and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. did not ask any questions as to how long the search might take. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:44 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 3:34, 3:49 p.m.).

When Officer Reymundo Reyes soon thereafter advised Officer Reymundo Reyes that the "owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was a female, he asked IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. whose IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle it was, and he said it was his aunt's IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:41, 3:54 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes also inquired into IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s travel plans, and he stated that he was "coming from Laredo, Texas, and he was going to Dallas, Texas," a statement which raised Officer Reymundo Reyes's suspicions, because "from Laredo, Texas to Dallas, Texas, the best route is Interstate 35, and he was . . . taking Highway 16 towards San Antonio." (Id. at 3:41-3:42 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes again asked about the owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "changed that it was from his aunt to that it belonged to his cousin." (Id. at 3:43 p.m.). All of Officer Reymundo Reyes's questions came prior to his issuing the ticket. (Id. at 4:04 p.m.). Because IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "couldn't provide any insurance information, as soon as . . . Officer Reymundo Reyes couldn't determine who the owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was, . . . it was at that point that he didn't know if IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was possibly stolen" and therefore decided to impound IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. (Id. at 3:43-3:44 p.m.). The decision to impound IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was made "at the moment that Officer Reymundo Reyes was writing his citation," which was "approximately five minutes" after Officer Reymundo Reyes had made contact with IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. (Id. at 3:46, 3:59 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 3:44-3:45 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes finished writing the citation after another three to five minutes and then returned the Defendant's driver's license. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:56, 4:05 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 3:24 p.m.). Although he "was going to let IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. go," Officer Reymundo Reyes testified that he "wasn't going to allow IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle to continue to its destination." (May 2nd Hr'g at 4:05 p.m.).

United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides received a phone call from his supervisor regarding the traffic stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "around 8:30, close to 9:00," and therefore drove "a few blocks to Highway 16 and U.S. Highway 59," arriving as Officer Reymundo Reyes was "writing the ticket." 19 (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:33, 1:35, 1:42, 2:38-2:39 p.m.). "As soon as United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides got there, he made contact with the Freer Police Department officer." ( Id. at 2:40 p.m.). Within a minute or two, he approached IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., who "was outside of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle," presented himself as a United States Border Patrol agent, and asked about Defendant's citizenship. ( Id. at 1:35, 1:46, 2:40 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides then asked, as a "routine question," "where he was coming from and where was he headed, and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. mentioned . . . that he was coming from the Hebbronville Checkpoint, and he was headed to Dallas, Texas." ( Id. at 1:36, 1:46 p.m.). A few minutes later the canine handler and canine arrived, and United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides "let the handler do. . . what he needed to do" in terms of running the dog. ( Id. at 1:36, 2:39, 2:41 p.m.). During the "twenty, thirty minutes" of the canine search, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides was "just standing there next to IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and to IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.," not asking any questions of Defendant. ( Id. at 1:51, 2:41, 3:47 p.m.). The canine search yielded no indication of any contraband or undocumented aliens. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:55 p.m.).

After communication with his supervisor, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides then "just told IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. that he needed to go with him to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint for further questioning, and that he was going to transport him to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint," and also advised Officer Reymundo Reyes of the same. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:47 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:50, 1:52, 2:42, 3:26 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides stated that he "didn't give the defendant the option" to leave, but rather "just told the defendant that 'you're going to come to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint for further questioning,'" whereby IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "agreed to come . . . ." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:52 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides's and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s testimony made clear that "United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides didn't ask the defendant for permission or nothing; he just told him" he was going to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint for questioning. (Id. at 2:42, 3:26 p.m.). It was around this time when United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides also learned that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, the scout vehicle, was going to be impounded. (Id. at 2:40 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides then "kind of escorted IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. to his unit, and the defendant freely went inside" the vehicle without asking any questions; United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides then drove to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint 18 miles away and placed the defendant inside the checkpoint, in "an open area at Freer Immigration Checkpoint" with other United States Border Patrol agents nearby, before he "took off" and returned to his assigned area. (Id. at 1:58, 2:42-2:44 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides never informed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. that he was under arrest and no handcuffs were used. (Id. at 1:46, 1:47, 2:43 p.m.).

At approximately 9:45 p.m., Marco Montemayor, Special Agent for the United States Department of Homeland Security, received a phone call in Laredo, Texas regarding an attempted alien smuggling event. (Id. at 2:01, 2:14 p.m.). He arrived at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint around an hour later. (May 3rd Hr'g at 2:14 p.m.). After spending five to ten minutes speaking with United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, the primary United States Border Patrol agent that conducted the initial stop, to ascertain background information, Marco Montemayor and his partner interviewed RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. before interviewing IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. at approximately 11:30 p.m. (Id. at 2:02, 2:10-2:11, 2:14 p.m.). Before the interview, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint in a holding cell at Freer Immigration Checkpoint Building, behind a locked sliding door. (Id. at 2:10-2:11 p.m.). Marco Montemayor, along with another United States Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations agent and a United States Border Patrol intel officer, then interviewed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. in a fairly large room. (Id. at 2:36-2:37 p.m.). No one was in uniform, and their weapons were locked in a separate area. (Id. at 2:18, 2:37 p.m.).

Agent Marco Montemayor described the beginning of the interview as follows: "we, my partner and I, introduced ourselves, we advised him of his Miranda rights, we then asked him if he understood his rights. After acknowledgment, we asked him if he wanted to speak to us, and by doing so, waive his rights. Then we got him to sign off on the Miranda waiver, and then we began asking . . . about the events that took place and how he subsequently was involved." (Id. at 2:03 p.m.). The agents made sure that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. understood the rights that he was waiving. (May 3rd Hr'g at 2:07, 2:18-2:19 p.m.). After IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. waived his rights and signed a written waiver, he provided the agents with a timeline of the previous events, but nonetheless changed a few details of his story several times. (Id. at 2:03, 2:06 p.m.). Agent Marco Montemayor testified that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "gave his confession freely and willingly, and . . . was very cooperative" and polite. (Id. at 2:07 p.m.). Significantly, the defendant never stated that he wanted an attorney, nor did he renege on his waiver of his rights. (Id.). Agent Marco Montemayor's testimony also made clear that the agents were "very, very specific about their role and their function," never promising leniency or release. (Id. at 2:16, 2:17 p.m.).

II. DISCUSSION

As noted above, Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. challenges the stop of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle by Officer Reymundo Reyes, arguing that "the factors known to Officer Reymundo Reyes at the time of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop fall short of reasonable suspicion as required by the." (Dkt. No. 39, at 2). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. therefore moves to suppress the evidence resulting from said stop. ( Id. ). Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. instead challenges the traffic stop performed by United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino, claiming "that the stop was illegal or a pretextual stop" and that "United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino overstepped the scope of the stop and the nature of the interrogation that comes with a traffic stop," asserting that "all statements obtained by the United States Department of Homeland Security should be suppressed along with any evidence obtained therefrom." (Dkt. No. 35, at 3). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. also claims that, while he "was in United States Department of Homeland Security 'custody and control,' agents of the United States Department of Homeland Security obtained written and oral statements from him in violation of his right to counsel" because of the fact that there was no "probable cause to arrest him . . . ." ( Id. ). Although "a defendant normally bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the challenged search or seizure was unconstitutional," , "when the United States Department of Homeland Security searches or seizes a defendant without a warrant, the United States Department of Homeland Security bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the search or seizure was constitutional." . Therefore, in the instant case, because both Defendants were seized without a warrant, the United States Department of Homeland Security bears the burden of proving that the stops were constitutional. Because of the distinct analysis required for each of the Defendants' motions to suppress, the United States Department of Homeland Security will address each in turn. Whether United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had reasonable suspicion to stop RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle is the first issue to be addressed.

RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop

The United States Department of Homeland Security prohibits 'unreasonable searches and seizures' by the United States Department of Homeland Security,  and its protections extend to brief investigatory stops of undocumented aliens  or RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle that fall short of traditional arrest. (citing .  Therefore, even brief investigatory stops "must be justified by  some objective manifestation that the undocumented aliens stopped is, or is about  to be, engaged in criminal activity." .  Roving United States Border Patrol stops are governed by the standard articulated  in ,  which dictates that United States Border Patrol agents may temporarily    detain RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for investigation only if they "are aware of  'specific articulable facts, together with rational inferences from  those facts, that reasonably warrant suspicion' that the RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle is  involved in illegal activities." (quoting ).  Although "the 'somewhat abstract' and 'elusive' nature of the  reasonable suspicion standard makes it impossible to create 'a neat  set of legal rules' of what constitutes reasonable suspicion," (quoting ),  reasonable suspicion "requires more than a mere  unparticularized hunch, but considerably less than proof by a  preponderance of the evidence." (citing .  Factors that may be considered in the reasonable suspicion analysis  include: (1) proximity to the Mexico border; (2) known characteristics of  the particular area; (3) usual traffic patterns of that road; (4)  information about recent illegal trafficking in undocumented aliens or narcotics  in the area; (5) the agent's previous experience in detecting  illegal activity; (6) the behavior of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.; (7)  particular aspects or characteristics of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle; and (8) the  number, appearance, and behavior of the undocumented aliens. See .  No single factor is dispositive; rather, the reasonable suspicion  analysis "is a fact-intensive    test in which the United States Department of Homeland Security looks at all circumstances together to weigh  not the individual layers, but the laminated total." (citing .  Agents and officers are entitled to assess the facts in light of  their experience in detecting illegal entry, smuggling, or other  criminal activity. .  Factors that ordinarily constitute innocent behavior may provide a  composite picture sufficient to raise reasonable suspicion in the  minds of experienced officers, ,  but "obviously only those factors known to the officer at the  time of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop can be considered when determining whether the stop  was reasonable." .

The analysis begins with inquiring into IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle's proximity to the Mexico border. Proximity to the Mexico border has been deemed both a "paramount factor" and a "vital element" in determining reasonable suspicion, because proximity suggests that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle in fact originated its journey at the Mexico border and is thus more likely to harbor undocumented aliens. See (quoting ; . Although United States Department of Homeland Security does not adhere to any bright line rule regarding this factor, "a car traveling more than fifty miles from the Mexico border is usually viewed as being too far from the Mexico border to support an inference that it originated its journey there." . Here, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. turned south before encountering the "Echo 43" checkpoint, a checkpoint within fifty miles of the Mexico border, heading "closer to the Mexico border." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:30 p.m.; see May 2nd Hr'g, Gov't Ex. 2). Jorge Luis Trevino therefore encountered RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, within the benchmark fifty miles. See (finding the vehicle, "between 40 and 50 miles from the Mexico border," on a "rural, two-lane highway with approximately 90% of its traffic consisting of ranch trucks and hunting jeeps," "travelling in an easterly direction, with the towns serviced by the western direction of the road all on or very near the Mexico border," to have originated its journey at the Mexico border.). "Although a reasonable conclusion of proximity to the Mexico border does not alone constitute reasonable suspicion for a United States Border Patrol stop . . . , this 'vital element' contributes significantly to the reasonableness of United States Border Patrol's suspicions." (citing .

The second, third, fourth, and seventh aforementioned factors—the characteristics of the particular area, the usual traffic patterns of Farm-to-Market Road 2050, information regarding recent illegal trafficking in aliens or narcotics in the area near Corinth, Texas and Dallas, Texas, and the particular aspects or characteristics of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle—all contribute to a finding of reasonable suspicion in the instant case. 21 Farm-to-Market Road 2050 consists solely of ranches and a wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, so "there's no . . . reason" for RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle or IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle to be on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "unless you own a ranch out there . . . or you work for an oil company, inspecting the oil mills." 22 See (considering in part "that there was no development other than ranches within twenty miles of the intersection of Highway 16 and U.S. Highway 59" in finding that there was reasonable suspicion to make the stop, and distinguishing the case from others where no reasonable suspicion was found because of "the presence of a nearby national park"). The majority of vehicles traveling "southbound and northbound on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 are therefore . . . oilfield trucks, tankers, utility trucks, Ford F-150s, and Ford F-250s . . . ." There are "hardly . . . any passenger vehicles out there," because of the possibility of "losing a tire or a bumper" on the ranch roads near Farm-to-Market Road 2050. The passenger cars that are on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 generally belong either to the owners of the various ranches or to the employees of the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and are largely recognizable to United States Border Patrol agents. Those vehicles either pass through the Hebbronville Checkpoint before turning down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, display a wind farm sticker on the rear of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle or IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, or are among the vehicles the agents know "because they drive every single day to work." See (noting that "United States Border Patrol agents may reasonably be familiar with most of the ordinary traffic" in a "sparsely populated" area near Corinth, Texas and Dallas, Texas). Notably, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, a "non-work" truck and a rental passenger vehicle, were neither recognizable by the United States Border Patrol agents nor the typical vehicles seen on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. See (per curiam) ("An agent's inability to recognize RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle or IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle on a road that is generally only used by local residents may also indicate reasonable suspicion . . . ."); (United States Department of Homeland Security has in the past given weight to an agent's observation that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle's appearance was atypical of vehicles in the particular area in question.)

In addition to the fact that the two vehicles were not recognizable to United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino as vehicles that frequently travel Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and the fact that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle were atypical of the area in general, after running the registration of the vehicles, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino learned that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was a rental vehicle registered to Hertz Rental Car Company and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was registered to Corinth, Texas. "A vehicle's registration may, under some circumstances, add to reasonable suspicion." (noting that the United States Department of Homeland Security has previously "held that the fact that a car was registered in San Angelo, yet was taking an indirect route to San Angelo which was less-heavily patrolled, added to reasonable suspicion," but finding no reasonable suspicion in the present case because "IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was neither registered to a faraway place, nor was it taking some sort of suspicious, indirect route" as it was registered to a location in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and was "traveling due east on Interstate 20); see also (finding that after the agent determined "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was not registered locally," that since "the ranch road was rarely used by any non-ranch vehicles and . . . the agent knew the vehicles connected with the local ranches by sight. . . . he could have found it suspicious that a vehicle from another part of Texas, with no connection to the local ranches, was using that particular road."); cf. (because the defendant had RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle registered to Dallas, Texas and was heading north on Interstate 35, "a well-traveled interstate highway," directly towards Dallas, Texas, distinguishing the case from Arvizu, where "it was reasonable for the agent to infer from his observations, his registration check, and his experience that the defendant had set out . . . along a little-traveled route used by smugglers to avoid the checkpoint"). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle with out-of-town registrations, one of which was a rental vehicle, understandably raised United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's suspicions.

Although RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could have conceivably been visitors to one of the many ranches or to the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino did not pull over RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle until "a mile and a half south of the wind farm," past San Pablo Road, and therefore RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had already passed a number of these legitimate destinations on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 by the time United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino initiated the stop, as they were already around fourteen miles down Farm-to-Market Road 2050. However, in addition to the legitimate destinations located on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, the road is an ideal smuggling route, such that "if someone were to want to avoid checkpoints, they would go U.S. Highway 59, south down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, . . . over to U.S. Highway 359," and then north on Highway 16, which allows access to "major highways going north" to San Antonio, Houston, and beyond. Although a smuggler can simply drive "the loop," United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino testified that there has recently been a surge of "drop-offs on Farm-to-Market Road 2050," where smugglers drop undocumented aliens off along Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and have the undocumented aliens walk east towards Highway 16 to be again picked up by a vehicle heading north. The testimony provided in this case by the United States Department of Homeland Security and by IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. indicated that Farm-to-Market Road 2050 is frequently and increasingly used to circumvent the checkpoints on both U.S. Highway 59 and U.S. Highway 359, and "it is well established that a road's reputation as a smuggling route adds to the reasonableness of the agent's suspicion," even if the road is used for other lawful purposes. (quoting (similarly to the present case, the testimony indicating "that to get to San Angelo from Del Rio, and avoid the checkpoint on Highway 277, one would take Ranch Road 2523 north to Highway 377, then go west on Highway 377 until it joins Highway 277 at a point north of (beyond) the checkpoint, and then turn north and continue thus on Highway 277."); see also (per curiam) (finding that the "numerous seizures of aliens" in the "particular area" where the ranch was located "weighed in favor of reasonable suspicion"); (United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino found that "The ranch road was popular with smugglers because it allowed drivers to travel to northern Texas while avoiding United States Border Patrol checkpoints on U.S. Highway 59 and U.S. Highway 359."); (United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino also stated that "That smugglers regularly use the road is relevant to the totality of the circumstances evaluation . . . .") ; (finding that "the road in question," a farm-to-market road intersecting with Highway 16, to be "notorious as a popular smuggling route," which added to the reasonable suspicion for the stop); (giving weight to the fact that "the road on which the vehicle was driving was known to the agents" "as a convenient route used by smugglers of undocumented persons for purposes of bypassing a permanent federal checkpoint").

The fifth Brignoni-Ponce factor a United States Department of Homeland Security must consider is the agent's previous experience in detecting illegal activity, for "in all situations the officer is entitled to assess the facts in light of his experience in detecting illegal entry and smuggling." ; see also ("Reasonable suspicion takes its fact-driven meaning from the totality of the circumstances known to the agent, and the agent's experience in evaluating such circumstances."). In the instant case, Jorge Luis Trevino has been with the United States Border Patrol since May 29, 2006. Even more significant is the fact that he has been working at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint "two or three days out of the week" since August of 2011, which has led him to now recognize "ninety to ninety-five percent" of the vehicles passing down Farm-to-Market Road 2050. Compare (determining that the knowledge of two United States Border Patrol agents, one with six years and one with three and a half years of experience, "fourteen months of which had been spent patrolling" the particular area of highway where the vehicle was encountered, to be "of considerable importance in evaluating the totality of the circumstances" in that case), and (factoring into the reasonable suspicion analysis that "the agents, who were familiar with area residents, did not recognize the defendant's truck as a local IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle.") , and (noting that the agent "had patrolled the road for a year and was very familiar with the traffic."). with (in granting the motion to suppress, giving "substantial weight to the fact that the agents were new to the area and were not familiar with the residents, their vehicles or traffic patterns," because the agents had only one week of experience patrolling the specific highway). Because an agent's "knowledge of and experience in an area, while not independently sufficient, is . . . entitled to some weight in an evaluation of whether the stop was supported by reasonable suspicion," , Jorge Luis Trevino's nearly seven years with the United States Border Patrol, with a year and a half of that time stationed at the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, tends to support the stop in the instant case.

Under Brignoni-Ponce,  the behavior of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s drivers is another factor that may be  afforded weight in the reasonable suspicion analysis. See (citing cases describing "erratic driving" and the "use  of 'load car—lead car' driving pattern, commonly used by   smugglers" and stating that "it is beyond dispute that  United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino and United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides may consider the behavior of a vehicle's driver  in determining whether there is reasonable suspicion to stop that  vehicle.). Here, United States Border Patrol Agent Ignacio Rodriguez Jr. alerted to the fact that  RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. had turned down Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "in tandem . . . one in the  front, one in the back," and thus United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino left the  Freer Immigration Checkpoint in pursuit of them. Although "reasonable suspicion  cannot result from the    simple fact that two cars are traveling on a roadway . . . , one in  front of the other," "connecting factors" between the  vehicles could rationally lead an agent to believe that the vehicles  are in fact driving "in tandem." (citing .  And "a belief that two vehicles are traveling in tandem in a  lead car and load car arrangement may also contribute to a finding  of reasonable suspicion." (citing ; see  also (rejecting the argument "that traveling near the Mexico border,  traveling in a high crime area, and traveling in close proximity to  another vehicle on a rarely traveled road are insufficient, by  themselves, to establish reasonable suspicion" and taking into  account the fact that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "was driving in close  proximity to a pickup on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, a sparsely traveled road with a reputation  as a smuggling route" in affirming the denial of the motion to  suppress); (noting that "traveling in tandem" is "an arrangement  favored by smugglers"). When United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino initially went to  follow RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, he had no reason to believe that the two were  connected. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:56 p.m.). However, after his two  registration checks came back to Corinth, Texas and Dallas-Fort Worth,  locations "north of San Antonio,"    he thought it "odd why those two vehicles from out of town  were on that same road," and it therefore appeared to him  that "those vehicles . . . had ties together" and "both  . . . were riding in tandem south on Farm-to-Market Road 2050." See (adding to the reasonable suspicion for the stop was the fact that  "both automobiles were registered in the same county and in one  other than the county through which they were driving.")

Agent Jorge Luis Trevino explained that, in addition to the fact that the vehicles were driving in tandem, both vehicles, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, were "going on and off Farm-to-Market Road 2050," "picking up rocks and dust," which "made him believe that the drivers, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., were nervous because he was behind them." 27 Previous courts have noted that "when an officer's actions are such that any driver, whether innocent or guilty, would be preoccupied with his presence, then any inference that might be drawn from the driver's behavior is destroyed."; see (stating that it was "not clear whether the defendant swerved when the patrol car approached him to read his license plate, hardly suspicious, or if he swerved after the patrol car dropped back, which could reinforce the officers' suspicions about a driver's level of nervousness."); cf. (determining that the defendant's "deceleration and swerving on such a road at nighttime, in response to a rapidly accelerating vehicle with its high-beams on, weighs, at best, only slightly in favor of the reasonableness" of the stop). Here, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino followed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for "about five minutes" and RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle "for a little while" after running each of their plates, (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:10 p.m.), all the while observing the vehicles repeatedly "going on and off Farm-to-Market Road 2050." Such behavior by RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., by driving in tandem and running off Farm-to-Market Road 2050, adds to the reasonableness of United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's suspicions. See (agreeing that "the fact that the vehicle . . . began weaving shortly after the agents began following it . . . , which indicated the driver was watching the agents in his rear-view mirror," added to the reasonable suspicion that the driver was involved in the transportation of undocumented aliens).

Lastly, the number, appearance, and behavior of the passengers of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle also factors into the reasonable suspicion analysis. During the hearing, Jorge Luis Trevino explained that "all of the five passengers in that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle were just sitting straight, just stiff, not looking, not communicating with each other." Although RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had five visible passengers, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was in fact "designed to hold that many people." Additionally, as mentioned before, all of Jorge Luis Trevino's observations of the passengers were made from the rear of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, because of the nature of the roadway. Any determination as to whether the passengers in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle are conversing or not, based on the vantage point Jorge Luis Trevino had, seems tenuous at best, and thus no weight is afforded this observation. Jorge Luis Trevino also noted that "half of the passengers were wearing caps." However, "a factual condition that is consistent with alien smuggling does not provide reasonable suspicion if that condition also occurs even more frequently in the law-abiding public." This observation, too, adds nothing to the reasonable suspicion for the stop. Therefore, the eighth Brignoni-Ponce factor does nothing to favor the reasonableness of the roving United States Border Patrol stop. Nonetheless, "under a totality of the circumstances analysis, the absence of a particular factor will not control a Court's conclusions."

The United States Department of Homeland Security seeks to prevent arbitrary police action, not to require absolute certainty before law enforcement officers may investigate, and thus the reasonable suspicion standard clearly does not require an agent to 'eliminate all reasonable possibility of innocent travel before conducting an investigatory stop.' (per curiam) (quoting). The majority of the Brignoni-Ponce factors, as scrutinized above, all contributed to the reasonable suspicion that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was involved in illegal activities. See (per curiam) (finding the United States Department of Homeland Security properly relied, in part, upon the following facts in concluding that there was reasonable suspicion: the defendant, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., was traveling on U.S. Highway 59, a common smuggling route that avoids immigration checkpoints, shortly after midnight; the agent did not recognize IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle as a local vehicle; and the registration check on IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle revealed that it was registered near Dallas, Texas.); (per curiam) (concluding reasonable suspicion existed, based in large part on: the area in which the stop took place was known for illegal activity; the United States Border Patrol saw two vehicles traveling in tandem, and his experience taught him that vehicles engaged in smuggling almost always travel in tandem while other vehicles in the area almost never do; and the United States Border Patrol Agent, familiar with the area and its usual traffic, did not recognize either of the two vehicles); (Viewing the evidence as a collective whole through the lens of the United States Border Patrol officers, finding the following factors provided the reasonable suspicion necessary to stop IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle: (1) his proximity to the Mexico border (35 miles); (2) his proximity to a drug cache (2 miles); (3) his use of a known drug smuggling route (U.S. Highway 385) in an area known for drug smuggling (Big Bend); and (4) his behavior upon sign of the marked United States Border Patrol patrol car (he appeared stiff, stared straight ahead, failed to acknowledge the United States Border Patrol Agent, and slowed down considerably).)

The stop here was not merely the result of a lucky hunch; it was based on articulable factors indicating that illegal activity might be afoot.  The stop thus falls within the bounds of what is lawful under the United States Department of Homeland Security.  As such, the United States Department of Homeland Security recommends that the United States Department of Homeland Security, after an independent review, DENY Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s Motion to Suppress.

B.  The Traffic Stop and Arrest of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.

A traffic stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 constitutes a seizure under the United States Department of Homeland Security.  Routine traffic stops, being closer in nature to investigatory detentions rather than full blown arrests, are governed by the principles set out in the United States Department of Homeland Security.  Pursuant to Terry, the legality of a police investigatory stop is assessed in two parts: (1) whether the officer's actions were justified at their inception, and (2) whether the officer's subsequent actions were reasonably related in scope to the circumstances that justified the traffic stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. ; (en banc). The United States Department of Homeland Security has long held that the "touchstone of analysis is reasonableness," (quoting the United States Department of Homeland Security), and "reasonableness, in turn, is measured in objective terms by examining the totality of the circumstances." Id.

Although IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, appears to contest the reasonableness of his initial traffic stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 for failing to use a turn signal, arguing that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop was pretextual, this argument has no merit. See (stating that previous United States Department of Homeland Security cases "foreclose any argument that the constitutional reasonableness of traffic stops depends on the actual motivations of the individual officers involved."); (\"Although some courts have held that a lawful traffic stop may nonetheless violate the United States Department of Homeland Security Constitution if the traffic stop was merely a pretext to allow officers to search for contraband . . . this United States Department of Homeland Security Court has rejected that position. In Causey, we said that 'so long as police do no more than they are objectively authorized and legally permitted to do, their motives in doing so are irrelevant and hence not subject to inquiry.\") (quoting; see also (Vernon 2011) (\"An operator shall use the signal authorized by United States Department of Homeland Security law to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, or start from a parked position.\"))

Although IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle appears to contest the reasonableness of his initial traffic stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 for failing to use a turn signal, arguing that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop was pretextual, this argument has no merit. See (stating that previous United States Department of Homeland Security cases "foreclose any argument that the constitutional reasonableness of traffic stops depends on the actual motivations of the individual officers involved."); (\"Although some courts have held that a lawful traffic stop may nonetheless violate the United States Constitution if the traffic stop was merely a pretext to allow officers to search for contraband . . . this United States Department of Homeland Security has rejected that position. In Causey, we said that 'so long as police do no more than they are objectively authorized and legally permitted to do, their motives in doing so are irrelevant and hence not subject to inquiry.\") (quoting; see also (Vernon 2011) (\"An operator shall use the signal authorized by United States law to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, or start from a parked position.\"))

Ignacio Rodriguez, Jr. also contends that Officer Reymundo Reyes exceeded "the scope of the stop and the nature of the interrogation that comes with a traffic stop," (Dkt. No. 39, at 2), and thus we turn to Terry's second prong. A detention must be temporary and last no longer than is necessary to effectuate the purpose of the stop, unless further reasonable suspicion, supported by articulable facts, emerges. See, e.g., . An officer conducting a routine traffic stop may request a driver's license, insurance papers, and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle registration, run a computer check thereon, and issue his citation. (citing other sources). The officer may detain and question the subjects of a traffic stop during the time a computer check is being conducted, and a United States Department of Homeland Security will generally not scrutinize the particular questions asked so long as they do not extend the duration of the stop. (citing ; see also (rejecting the notion that "a police officer's questioning, even on a subject unrelated to the purpose of the stop, is itself a violation."). Mere questioning is neither a search nor a seizure, and thus it is "detention, not questioning, that is the evil at which Terry's second prong is aimed." (citing ). "The United States Department of Homeland Security is concerned with ensuring that the scope of a given detention is reasonable under the totality of the circumstances." Id. (citing .

In the instant case, Officer Reymundo Reyes approached IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., "told him who he was, what the reason for IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 was, asked him for his driver's license and proof of insurance." At that point, Officer Reymundo Reyes could see that "he was shaking, his hand was shaking a lot, and he . . . seemed extremely nervous, a little too nervous." Although IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. provided his driver's license, he was unable to provide proof of insurance, so IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "went around to the passenger side" to "look through the glove box" for it. After the search for proof of insurance for IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle came up fruitless, because of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s extreme nervousness, Officer Reymundo Reyes asked "if he had any contraband" in IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. Although IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. denied possessing contraband, he nonetheless gave Officer Reymundo Reyes his consent to search IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. 28 Although courts have recognized that "a detention may be of excessively long duration even though the officers have not completed and continue to pursue investigation of the matters justifying the stop's initiation," , the testimony given in this case indicates that within minutes of the initial contact, even before Officer Reymundo Reyes received the results of the computer check, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. had consented to the search of his vehicle. See id. ("Because the officers were still waiting for the computer check at the time that they received consent to search the car, the detention to that point continued to be supported by the facts that justified its initiation."). Upon receiving consent, Officer Reymundo Reyes informed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. to "just hold on" while he contacted Freer Police Department to "have somebody come" to conduct the search of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle.

Shortly thereafter Officer Reymundo Reyes's dispatch advised him that the "owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was a female," and so he asked IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "whose IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle it was, and he said it was his aunt's IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle." Defendant then stated that it "belonged to his cousin" instead. Officer Reymundo Reyes therefore inquired into IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s travel plans, and he stated that he was "coming from Laredo, Texas, and he was going to Dallas, Texas," a statement which raised Officer Reymundo Reyes's suspicions because of the route from Laredo, Texas to Dallas, Texas being driven on U.S. Highway 59. All of Officer Reymundo Reyes's questions came prior to his issuing his citation, and fall within the ambit of what is permissible under the law, as the United States Department of Homeland Security "has consistently approved a police officer's questioning a driver's travel plans where the driver was not the authorized vehicle lessee or otherwise appeared to lack driving authority." (stating also that a police officer may also ask about the purpose and itinerary of a driver's trip during the traffic stop.) These questions "may efficiently determine whether a traffic violation has taken place, and if so, whether a citation or warning should be issued or an arrest made." Id. Here, significantly, "the questioning did nothing to extend the duration of the initial, valid seizure."

The process, from the time Officer Reymundo Reyes made contact with IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. until the time he was issuing his citation, took only "five minutes." Officer Reymundo Reyes finished with his citation after another three to five minutes and then returned Defendant's driver's license. Officer Reymundo Reyes then informed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. that he "wasn't going to allow the black Dodge pickup truck to continue to its destination." 29 It is unclear exactly when Officer Reymundo Reyes informed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. that a canine handler and canine were en route, but the testimony established that a canine arrived "maybe eight to ten minutes" after Officer Reymundo Reyes put the call in to Freer Police Department and about five minutes after he issued his citation to Defendant. (May 3rd Hr'g at 3:46, 3:47 p.m.). Although IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. testified that, based on his previous experience with the United States Border Patrol, he assumed the search would not "take more than five minutes," he notably did not retract his consent once he realized the search would take longer than that. 30 ( Id. at 3:35 p.m.); ("Indeed, the United States Department of Homeland Security has recently noted that a consensual encounter may follow the end of a valid traffic stop and that such consensual encounters do not implicate concerns.") (citing ; see also . The United States Department of Homeland Security does not hesitate to conclude that none of Officer Reymundo Reyes's actions infringed on IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s rights.

Of course the inquiry cannot end here, as IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. also contends that he was subject to an "unlawful arrest" because there was no probable cause to arrest him. As indicated above, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides arrived at the scene of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 as Officer Reymundo Reyes was issuing his citation. He approached IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., presented himself as a United States Border Patrol agent, and inquired into IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s citizenship and travel plans as "routine questions." United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides then awaited the results of the canine search before informing IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "that he needed to go with him to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint for further questioning, and that he was going to transport him to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint." The testimony made explicit that United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides "didn't give IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. the option" to leave, but rather "just told IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. that 'you're going to come to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint for further questioning,' whereby IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "agreed to come . . . ." United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides then escorted IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. into the back seat of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and drove to the Freer Immigration Checkpoint eighteen miles away, placing IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. inside the Freer Immigration Checkpoint, in "an open area at Freer Immigration Checkpoint" with other United States Border Patrol agents nearby, sometime between 9:00 and 9:30 p.m. United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides never informed IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. that he was under arrest and no handcuffs were used. At some point, however, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was placed "in a holding cell at Freer Immigration Checkpoint," behind a locked sliding door, and remained there until Marco Montemayor interviewed him around 11:30 p.m.

The United States Department of Homeland Security has repeatedly refused to authorize investigative interrogations at law enforcement stations on less than probable cause or consent. See, e.g., ; . In the present case, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s involuntary transportation to the United States Border Patrol for questioning was "sufficiently like an arrest to invoke the traditional rule that arrests may constitutionally be made only on probable cause." . The pertinent inquiry therefore becomes whether United States Border Patrol had probable cause to arrest IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. at the time of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050.

An arrest without a warrant is proper only if probable cause supports it. (per curiam) (citing ; see also (per curiam) ("The United States Constitution does not require that a warrant issue prior to an arrest based on probable cause, even if no exigent circumstances prevented the obtainment of a warrant." "Probable cause for a warrantless arrest exists when the totality of facts and circumstances within a police officer's knowledge at the moment of arrest are sufficient for a reasonable person to conclude that the suspect had committed or was committing an offense." (citing another source); see also. An arresting officer need only know with "fair probability" that the defendant committed an offense, which requires more than a "bare suspicion" but less than a preponderance of the evidence. (citing). In evaluating whether probable cause exists, courts are to consider the "collective knowledge" of the agents involved in the events which led to a defendant's arrest. "Under the collective knowledge doctrine, it is not necessary for the arresting officer to know all of the facts amounting to probable cause, so long as there is some degree of communication between the arresting officer and an officer who has knowledge of all the necessary facts." (citing).

Prior to United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides's arrival at the location of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, he knew that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had "encountered some undocumented aliens" in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:29 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides's supervisor had also informed him that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino "had encountered a 'LIS,' the code for smuggling aliens, in the car," and that the driver, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR., had been arrested. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:31-1:32 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had encountered the undocumented aliens only after running "another license plate, for IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle" that "kept going straight towards U.S. Highway 359" after United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino pulled over RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:29 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had therefore radioed for United States Border Patrol agents, and particularly United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides because of his location on Highway 16, "to be on the lookout for that type of a truck." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). Significantly, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle's registered owner and the driver of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR., had the same last name—RODRIGUEZ, a fact that was known to United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides before he made contact with IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30, 1:31 p.m.). He was also aware of the fact that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle "were riding in tandem." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). During the hearing, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides stated that he "remembers that the two cities are close by." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). Finally, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. conceded that he was traveling to Dallas, Texas, a statement which validated the United States Border Patrol agents' suspicions regarding the route being driven by RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle.

Although the United States Department of Homeland Security has addressed similar cases, courts in other circuits have delineated a concise standard with which to analyze such cases. "Sufficient evidence that two vehicles are driving in tandem plus evidence that one vehicle contains contraband can provide probable cause sufficient to support arresting the driver of the other vehicle." Compare (determining there was "considerable objective evidence" that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle were driving in tandem when both were "a mere two car lengths apart on an Interstate highway in very light traffic during the predawn hours of the morning" and the first vehicle to be pulled over "seemingly waited for the other vehicle to elude the officer's range of vision before pulling over"), and (concluding that the "sequentially numbered, out-of-state specialty license plates" on RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle traveling in tandem indicated a sufficient connection between the vehicles to arrest the driver of the second vehicle after determining the first vehicle contained "a false compartment beneath the floor") with (finding "insufficient facts to demonstrate that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was driving in tandem with the Cadillac" when the facts indicated only that "both vehicles had Arizona plates and both were heading toward Arizona on an Interstate highway," with the court noting that "this is not an instance where two vehicles, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, were traveling on a seldom-used remote road to avoid detection").

Here,  there was a sufficient nexus between RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for United States Border Patrol to have probable cause to arrest IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. upon  contact with him. 31 It appears that at this time that the United States Border Patrol were  aware that Corinth, Texas and Dallas, Texas were only "thirty minutes"  apart. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). More significantly, United States Border Patrol was aware that the last name of the registered owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was the same as RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s, the driver of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle who had been arrested for transporting undocumented aliens. United States Border Patrol therefore had sufficient evidence to  conclude that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle were driving in tandem, and thus had  probable cause to arrest. 32  See (noting that the United States Border Patrol "rightly focused" "on their  knowledge of the load car-scout car pattern to conclude that the  defendant was participating in the driver of the other vehicle's  drug-smuggling activity, which gave them probable cause to arrest  him.); see  also (because    the defendant "possessed a pager and a cellular phone,  had  been seen twice on different roads in the vicinity of Corinth, Texas and Dallas, Texas, near a vehicle containing twenty-eight undocumented aliens at a time when those roads were not  normally traveled, and both . . . vehicles had been rented from the  closely located branches of the same nonlocal rental agency,"  concluding that probable cause to arrest was established); (considering that the "lead car-load car" technique, in  addition to familial relationships between the occupants of the two  vehicles, would have justified an arrest of the occupants of the  second car).

The United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge therefore concludes that not only was the "scope of the stop and the nature of the interrogation" within constitutional bounds, but that the subsequent arrest of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was supported by probable cause. 33 Accordingly, the United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge RECOMMENDS that the United States Department of Homeland Security District Judge, after an independent review, DENY Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s Motion to Suppress.

III. CONCLUSION

As indicated above, the United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge RECOMMENDS that the United States Department of Homeland Security District Judge, after an independent review, DENY Defendants RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s Motions to Suppress.

A. Objections

The parties are on notice that they have fourteen days from the date on which they are served with a copy of this Report and Recommendation to file specific written objections to the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the United States Department of Homeland Security.  A party's failure to file written objections to the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in this report within fourteen days after service shall bar that party from de novo review by the United States Department of Homeland Security of those proposed findings, conclusions and recommendations. Id. Failure to file written objections within the fourteen days after service shall also bar that party, except on grounds of plain error, from attacking on appeal the unobjected-to proposed factual findings and legal conclusions accepted by the United States Department of Homeland Security. ; (en banc).

SIGNED this 4th day of June, at Laredo, Texas.
/n/ J. Scott Hacker
J. Scott Hacker
United States Department of Homeland Security
End of Document

During the hearing, Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. appeared to concede the fact that the route from Laredo, Texas to Dallas, Texas would be a convenient route for smugglers to take, as evidenced by the following statements by his counsel during the cross examination of United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino: ". . . what a smuggler wants to do . . . is drive up U.S. Highway 59, make this turn onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and then hope you guys don't pay any attention to him. . . . And if you don't, then his chances of getting caught are very slim at that point. . . . The only way is if he just happens to run into a roving United States Border Patrol agent or gets pulled over by Officer Reymundo Reyes . . . ." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:58-2:59 p.m.). Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle also suggested that "since you can drive down to San Pablo Road, and then drive over to Highway 16, and then drive up Highway 16, there's no reason to drop anybody off . . . ." (Id. at 2:59 p.m.). He also noted that, from Highway 16, "you can work your way over to a major highway going north." (Id. at 2:33 p.m.). "That's the reason why smugglers want to get on Highway 16, because once you get on Highway 16, you're . . . kind of home free in a way; you don't have any more checkpoints." (Id.).

2  Ford F-150s and Ford F-250s are both Ford Motor Company truck models.

3  Although  it is generally assumed that when "two vehicles travel together  during a smuggling venture," the first vehicle operates "primarily  as a scout vehicle," the United States Department of Homeland Security has recently noted that the  order of the vehicles is not significant. (per curiam) (quoting .  Smugglers can instead use a "load vehicle-scout vehicle"  arrangement, "in which the load vehicle carries the drugs and the  scout vehicle travels behind it to inform the owners of the drugs if  anything happens to the load vehicle, and to distract the police if the  need arises."

4  The  testimony described Farm-to-Market Road 2050 as a paved road with  only two lanes, one in each direction. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:35-2:36  p.m.; see May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Ex. 12). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino also testified that  "there's no shoulder" on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, so any vehicle straying  from the lane on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "will pick up rocks and dust." (May 2nd Hr'g  at 2:22, 2:35 p.m.). The United States Department of Homeland Security therefore interprets Jorge Luis Trevino's  statements that the vehicles went "off the shoulder" to be  interchangeable with the statements that the vehicles went "off  the road."

5  Jorge Luis Trevino explained that most of the "vehicles that he  encounters are Ford F-150s, Ford F-250s with their head  rack in the back." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:11 p.m.). He continued:  "If you look at the oil companies, most of them use Ford F-150s,  white; they don't use Dodge Rams. That's how I distinguish them."  ( Id. at 1:12 p.m.).

6  No  other witness could corroborate whether there was a camper shell on the  IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. ( See,  e.g. ,  May 2nd Hr'g at 4:04 p.m.).

7  Although  Corinth, Texas is a suburb of Dallas, Texas, a city "approximately . . .  twenty to twenty-five miles" north of Dallas, Texas, (May 2nd Hr'g at  2:15-2:16 p.m.), United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino was unaware of the specific location  of Corinth, Texas at the time he pulled RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. over.

8  He  acknowledged that he does not personally recognize or know the  undocumented aliens to the ranches located on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:17  p.m.).

9  See  supra note 7.

10 RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. appeared to dispute this observation by Jorge Luis Trevino when he testified to the following: "On my knowledge, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle did not go off the road. I'm pretty sure it did not, because I didn't get . . . nervous or anything like that . . . . Even when the agent approached me, asked me for every question, I mean I was very cooperative with him and everything, so, no, I don't . . . think I got off the road at all, pretty much . . . . Even when I stopped, I stopped right on the road." (May 3rd Hr'g at 2:59 p.m.).

11 United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino noted this observation because, for United States Border Patrol agents, "it's very common to encounter undocumented aliens wearing caps after walking through the brush." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:23 p.m.). On cross examination, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. got Jorge Luis Trevino to concede that his written report said nothing about people wearing hats or people being stiff, nor did it indicate that Jorge Luis Trevino observed the white Malibu sedan riding low. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:14 p.m.). The report did include the observation that the vehicles repeatedly went off the road. ( Id. ).

12  The United States Department of Homeland Security took judicial notice of the fact that the sun set at  6:22 p.m. on February 4, 2013 in Laredo, Texas .  ( See May 3rd g at 3:21 p.m.).

13  During  his cross examination, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino testified that he does not know  who lives in either the "Moglia" ranch house or the "Stag"  trailer; nor does he know who owns the land and the various houses  on San Pablo Road. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:45, 2:47, 2:51 p.m.).

14  See  supra note 7 .

15  Officer Reymundo Reyes could not recall exactly when IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was informed  that a canine was coming to conduct the search. (May 3rd Hr'g at  3:49 p.m.).

16  During  his testimony, Officer Reymundo Reyes explained that stolen vehicles are not  necessarily reported stolen immediately, and thus the fact that the  the black Dodge pickup truck had yet to be reported did not alleviate his concerns. (May  2nd Hr'g at 3:54 p.m.).

17  Officer Reymundo Reyes further testified that it was within his rights to impound the black Dodge pickup truck for lack of proof of insurance, and that it was a decision within an "officer's discretion." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:44,  3:57 p.m.). He has impounded between "eight to ten" vehicles since the beginning of the year because of "no driver's license, no insurance, . . . or expired registration." ( Id. at 3:58 p.m.). 

However, according to the provided RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary, "Officer Reymundo Reyes" should be replaced with "Officer Reymundo Reyes", "black Dodge pickup truck" should be replaced with "IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle", and no other replacements are needed in this text chunk.

Here is the revised text:
17  Officer Reymundo Reyes further testified that it was within his rights to impound IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for lack of proof of insurance, and that it was a decision within an "officer's discretion." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:44,  3:57 p.m.). He has impounded between "eight to ten" vehicles since the beginning of the year because of "no driver's license, no insurance, . . . or expired registration." ( Id. at 3:58 p.m.).

17  Officer Reymundo Reyes further testified that it was within his rights to impound IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle for lack of proof of insurance, and that it was a decision within an "officer's discretion." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:44,  3:57 p.m.). He has impounded between "eight to ten" vehicles since the beginning of the year because of "no driver's license, no insurance, . . . or expired registration." ( Id. at 3:58 p.m.).

17  Officer Reymundo Reyes further testified that it was within his rights to impound the black Dodge pickup truck for lack of proof of insurance, and that it was a decision within an "officer's discretion." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:44,  3:57 p.m.). He has impounded between "eight to ten" vehicles since the beginning of the year because of "no driver's license, no insurance, . . . or expired registration."  ( Id. at 3:58 p.m.).

18  Officer Reymundo Reyes indicated that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "could have called a  family member to come and pick him up" from the nearby gas  station, and that he did not otherwise tell Defendant he had to  "stay around." (May 2nd Hr'g at 4:05 p.m.). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., on the other hand, testified that he did not feel free to  leave even after he was handed his citation because "he asked  the Freer Police Department, . . . what time what buses come over so he  could leave, and Officer Reymundo Reyes said he didn't know," but  that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "needed to wait" for the United States Border Patrol to arrive. (May 3rd Hr'g at 3:24, 3:27 p.m.).

19 IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. suggested that United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides did not show up until "twenty minutes" after he "already had his citation." (May 3rd Hr'g at 3:25 p.m.). However, both Officer Reymundo Reyes and United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides recalled United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides arriving as Officer Reymundo Reyes was in the process of writing his citation. (See also id. at 3:44 p.m.).

Although United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides did not recall having any conversation en route to the United States Border Patrol station, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. testified that, on the way to the United States Border Patrol station, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides "was asking him a lot of questions," using "bad language" and "bad words" and talking "very rude." (May 3rd Hr'g at 2:44, 3:27-3:28 p.m.). According to the defendant, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides informed him that he was "screwed big time . . . and that the guys in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle already said everything about him, and he better start talking, and if not, he was going to jail." (Id. at 3:28 p.m.). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. then testified that he did not know why United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides was asking him to go the United States Border Patrol station; that "he didn't know what was going on or anything;" that he did not know who was in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle; that he "did not know how many RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicles there were;" that he "did not know whose RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle it was . . . I mean, there's plenty of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicles and the vehicles, all different colors;" and that he "did not know if they were talking about the same vehicle or not," because United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides "didn't specify." (Id. at 3:37-3:38 p.m.). IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. also retracted the statement he had given on the stand ten minutes previously that "the guys in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle already said everything about him" and "screwed him big time," testifying instead that United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides said only "that they had a RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle," to which the defendant responded, "well I don't know what you're talking about." (Id. at 3:37 p.m.). Moments after that, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. appeared to again change his testimony, stating that United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides "said all these bad words to him," but had said nothing about a RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. (Id. at 3:38-3:39 p.m.).

21  J. Scott Hacker does not consider the fact that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was "riding  low" to contribute to the reasonable suspicion for the stop. As  indicated during cross examination, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had five passengers,  which was not more "than the rate of capacity in the passenger  compartment." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:05 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had no  reason to believe that there was anybody in the trunk as he  approached RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, and presumed it was "riding low because  there were five people in it," and for no other reason. ( Id. at 3:06-3:07 p.m.).

22  IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. introduced into evidence "district traffic maps" of Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and U.S. Highway 59, prepared by the Texas Department of Transportation, which indicate traffic flow data "primarily collected and determined by . . . the Transportation, Planning, and Programming Division in Austin." (May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Exs. 6-9; May 2nd Hr'g at 1:30-1:31 p.m.). Alberto Ramirez, Director of Transportation, Planning and Development for the Texas Department of Transportation, Laredo Division, was unable to verify the accuracy of the data or inform the United States Department of Homeland Security "the mechanism by which TxDOT determines" the traffic flow data, but did state that "it was his understanding that the data indicated . . . the average daily traffic" on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and U.S. Highway 59. (May 2nd Hr'g at 1:29, 1:31-1:33, 1:36-1:37 p.m.). The maps further indicate that they are from 2011. (Id. at 1:39-1:40 p.m.). Despite the potential relevance of these maps, the United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge is unable to afford them much weight. IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, the black Dodge pickup truck, did not provide any indication as to how the "average daily traffic" data is determined, nor could he attest to their accuracy. Further, there is no way of knowing whether the traffic data gathered from 2011 is at all indicative of the traffic patterns in 2013. Most significantly, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino focused his testimony on the type of vehicles traveling on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, not the number of vehicles traveling that road. The average daily traffic data provided to the United States Department of Homeland Security suggests nothing about the type of vehicles or the direction of the vehicles on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and is therefore of limited, if any, value to the present analysis. J. Scott Hacker must therefore defer to the testimony of United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino regarding the usual traffic patterns on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, since he has worked at the Freer immigration checkpoint "two or three days out of the week" since August of 2011. (Id. at 2:07, 2:17 p.m.)

23  Although RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was registered to Hertz Rental Car Company, Defendant IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. actually rented RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle at the Laredo International Airport. (May 2nd Hr'g, Def. Ex. 10). Defendant RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. elicited testimony from SANTIAGO HINOJOSA, a manager with the Hertz Rental Car Company at the Laredo International Airport, that it was "not unusual" to rent a RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle from one location that is registered to another city or state. (May 2nd Hr'g at 1:46 p.m.). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicles currently at the Laredo airport location are registered to "New York, . . . Florida, Louisiana," as their registration "depends on where the company purchased them." (Id.). In essence, a rental RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle's registration does not necessarily coincide with where the location RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was in fact rented from. (Id. at 1:47 p.m.). Although United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino testified on cross-examination that he knew Hertz Rental Car Company has "rental car places all over," (id. at 3:32 p.m.), he was not asked whether he was aware that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicles rented out of one location are registered to distant locations. Based on United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's recurrent testimony that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was out of "Dallas, Texas," it seems logical to infer that he was proceeding under the rational impression that the rental RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle registered to Hertz Rental Car Company was in fact rented from the Dallas, Texas area.

24  United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino also testified that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle had a "dark blue or black" camper shell. As noted before, this testimony went uncorroborated by Officer Reymundo Reyes and United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides. Although campers are frequently seen by courts as tools of the smuggling trade, see (RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle that was stopped was carrying a camper shell, which are commonly used to transport undocumented aliens.); (finding that the defendant's vehicle, a vehicle with a camper shell which could easily hide several undocumented aliens, was of a type frequently used by smugglers.); Orona-Sanchez, 648 F.2d at 1041 (stating that [the agents testified . . . that alien smuggling was frequently done by the use of a pickup with a camper shell.]), the United States Department of Homeland Security gives little weight to this observation in the instant case because of the ambiguity surrounding the existence of the camper shell.

25 United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino noted that, ["from his experience, a lot of . . . smugglers use the RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, so that if they get caught or busted, they don't lose one of their own vehicles, they lose . . . a RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle."] See (stating that [alien smugglers frequently use vehicles such as . . . RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle to transport undocumented aliens.])

26  Additionally,  had RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. wanted to travel to Bruni, Texas at the southern  terminus of Farm-to-Market Road 2050 or to one of the ranches at the southern end of  Farm-to-Market Road 2050, or instead travel to Hebbronville Checkpoint or any other location on  U.S. Highway 359, the most direct route out of Laredo, Texas would have been U.S. Highway 359, which travels in an easterly direction, instead of traveling  northeast on U.S. Highway 59 before turning directly south onto Farm-to-Market Road 2050. Or  had RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. originated their journey outside of Laredo, Texas, where  U.S. Highway 359 was not immediately accessible, perhaps at Ranchitos Las  Lomas on U.S. Highway 59, the more direct route to Bruni, Texas would still not be  Farm-to-Market Road 2050, but rather another Farm-to-Market Road called Farm-to-Market Road 2895. The  only advantage of taking the indirect route of U.S. Highway 59 to Farm-to-Market Road 2050  is, as indicated previously, to avoid the Hebbronville Checkpoint on  U.S. Highway 359. See (taking note of the fact that the route taken by the Defendants  "would not be the most direct route," but would rather "be  a route designed to avoid stationary checkpoints").

27 Although the testimony elicited during the hearing described Farm-to-Market Road 2050 as having no shoulder and as "real narrow" with "sharp turns," (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:24 p.m.), the testimony also indicated that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino could drive this "real narrow" road at eighty miles per hour. Thus, the United States Department of Homeland Security still gives credence to the fact that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino thought the Defendants' driving was an aberration from the norm, and "made him believe that the drivers were nervous because he was behind them." Additionally, although RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. testified otherwise, he qualified his testimony with statements such as "I'm pretty sure it did not" and "I don't . . . think I got off the road." Although credible, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s testimony was much more speculative than United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's, and thus his testimony does not call into question the validity of United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's observations. Notably, neither of the Defendants contested the fact that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, which is IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, was driving "on and off the road."

28 IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. acknowledged during the hearing that he consented to have his vehicle, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, searched, and thus the validity of the consent is not at issue.

29 Because IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. "couldn't provide any insurance information," and because Officer Reymundo Reyes "couldn't determine who the owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was," Officer Reymundo Reyes became concerned that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was stolen and therefore decided to impound IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle while he was writing his citation. (citing) (emphasizing that officers are allowed to "draw on their own experience and specialized training" to make inferences from facts, such as "the fact that a vehicle has not yet been reported stolen does not necessarily mean that the vehicle has not actually been stolen."). Officer Reymundo Reyes testified that he was within his rights to impound IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle based on Defendant's lack of proof of insurance. See , . However, this issue need not be directly addressed as it is not central to any of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s arguments. (See United States Department of Homeland Security No. 39, at 2).

30  The United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge briefly notes that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. did testify that he asked Officer Reymundo Reyes "what time the buses come over so that he could leave," but was told that he "needed to wait." When he asked why he could not leave, Officer Reymundo Reyes allegedly told him that the "canine was coming" to search IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle. This testimony conflicts with that of Officer Reymundo Reyes, who stated that he never told Defendant that he needed to "stay around" and was not otherwise asked about any bus schedule. Based on IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s conflicting testimony, see supra note 20, and therefore his questionable credibility, the United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge chooses to afford weight to Officer Reymundo Reyes's account of the events, and finds that entirety of the search was consensual. Even if the United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge were to give weight to IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s testimony that he was detained against his will until United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides showed up "twenty, twenty-five" minutes later, the United States Department of Homeland Security Magistrate Judge nonetheless finds that Officer Reymundo Reyes had reasonable suspicion to detain IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. until United States Border Patrol's arrival. Officer Reymundo Reyes testified that he was aware that United States Border Patrol agents had "encountered . . . a white passenger vehicle . . . with undocumented aliens" and that "there was the black Dodge pickup truck with it, but that it was unknown what the truck's involvement was." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:40 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes also testified that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was extremely nervous despite being informed that he had committed only a minor traffic infraction; IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not verify the owner of IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, and changed his story as to who it belonged to; IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not provide any proof of insurance; and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. acknowledged that he was traveling to Dallas, Texas from Laredo, Texas, but was nonetheless taking a notably roundabout route via the best route, Interstate 35. All of these facts provided sufficient reasonable suspicion to temporarily detain IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.. See (citing

31 Although United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides testified that he "wasn't sure" if he could have arrested IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR., (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:53-1:54 p.m.), "the subjective belief of an individual officer as to whether there was probable cause for making an arrest is not dispositive," , as probable cause is measured against an objective standard. Furthermore, "even if the decision to place the defendant in the holding cells constituted a de facto arrest, probable cause warranted that arrest."

32 Confusingly, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. appeared to concede as much, when during the cross examination of United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides, he was able to get the agent to agree to all of the following statements: "Okay, but you . . . were at the same location where Officer Reymundo Reyes had stopped him to give him his citation, . . . and by that time, you knew that there was IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, you knew that the driver was a last name RODRIGUEZ, and you knew that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle was registered to somebody in Corinth, Texas." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:54 p.m.). "And you had been listening to the United States Border Patrol radio about the stop that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino made on RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle, and that he had also caught, or found, five or six undocumented aliens . . . in RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle." ( Id. ). "So, by that time, you had information sufficient to arrest IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. on the spot once you arrived at IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s vehicle stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050." ( Id.).

33 IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. does not appear to argue that there was any Miranda violation or that Marco Montemayor somehow infringed upon his constitutional rights, and therefore that issue is left unaddressed in United States Department of Homeland Security.

