Raymond McMillon is a defendant. Ramon De La Cruz is an Appellant.

PER CURIAM:

United States Border Patrol Agent at the immigration checkpoint stop discovered ten undocumented aliens hidden in the tractor-trailer in which Ramon De La Cruz was a passenger. Ramon De La Cruz was subsequently convicted of several alien transportation offenses and sentenced to a total of 41 months' imprisonment. He now appeals, challenging the denial of his motion to dismiss the indictment on the Speedy Trial Act grounds, the denial of the motion to dismiss the indictment, the sufficiency of the evidence on each of his convictions, and the denial of his request for a mitigated role adjustment at sentencing. Finding no error in the United States District Court's proceedings, we AFFIRM.

I.

We view the evidence adduced at the suppression hearing matter and discussed herein in the light most favorable to the United States Government as the prevailing party in the United States District Court. See. Similarly, all relevant evidence produced at trial and discussed herein is taken in the light most favorable to the jury's verdict. See, e.g.,.

A. Background

Raymond McMillon's run-in with the law arises from his travels through Texas with his co-defendant, Zeba Williams ("Zeba Williams"). Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams first traveled from Houston to San Antonio in the rental car "to do a construction job." Once in San Antonio, Zeba Williams asked Ramon De La Cruz to accompany him in the tractor-trailer to Laredo to pick up a piece of commercial equipment. Specifically, Ramon De La Cruz testified that Zeba Williams asked him to ride along and "to maybe help . . . drive back." Ramon De La Cruz did not drive the tractor-trailer at any point on the way to Laredo but "guessed" that he would have driven on the way back.

At approximately 4:14:25 a.m. on June 12, 2014, Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams arrived in the tractor-trailer at the immigration checkpoint stop. Zeba Williams was driving and Ramon De La Cruz was in the passenger seat. As the tractor-trailer entered the immigration checkpoint stop, United States Border Patrol Agent Luis Pena ("Luis Pena") approached the driver-side door and United States Border Patrol Agent Manuel Hernandez ("Manuel Hernandez") prepared to have his canine, Aroxa, perform a sniff of the tractor-trailer's exterior steps. Luis Pena identified himself and asked Zeba Williams if he minded opening the door so that they could hear each other over the engine noise. Zeba Williams obliged, and at approximately 4:14:35 a.m., Luis Pena climbed onto the tractor-trailer's exterior steps below the driver's door, placing him at eye level with Zeba Williams.

Agent Luis Pena began to question Zeba Williams and Ramon De La Cruz as United States Border Patrol Agent was "working his dog." United States Border Patrol Agent asked Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams if they were the United States Government citizens, and each confirmed that they were. United States Border Patrol Agent then questioned Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams about their travel plans. At approximately 4:15:07 a.m., as Zeba Williams responded to the travel question, United States Border Patrol Agent told United States Border Patrol Agent to "check the tractor-trailer's rear sleeper area." United States Border Patrol Agent understood this to mean that Aroxa had alerted to the presence of contraband in the tractor-trailer.

As a courtesy, United States Border Patrol Agent asked Zeba Williams for consent to search the tractor-trailer's sleeper area, and Zeba Williams obliged. From where he was standing on the tractor-trailer's exterior steps, United States Border Patrol Agent peeked into the tractor-trailer's rear sleeper area and saw a fold-up bed cracked open at an odd angle. He asked Ramon De La Cruz to pull the bed down; Ramon De La Cruz got up from his seat and attempted to do so, but stated that the bed was stuck. United States Border Patrol Agent then entered the tractor-trailer and attempted to lower the bed himself, at which time he saw a person's face hidden between the bed and the tractor-trailer's wall. At approximately 4:16:09 a.m., United States Border Patrol Agent exited the tractor-trailer and informed United States Border Patrol Agent that "it was going to be positive for aliens sic smuggling."

The United States Border Patrol Agents, United States Border Patrol Agent and United States Border Patrol Agent, placed Zeba Williams and Ramon De La Cruz under arrest. During a subsequent search, United States Border Patrol Agents discovered a total of ten undocumented aliens hidden in the tractor-trailer's closets and the tractor-trailer's beds.

B. Proceedings Below

On July 8, 2014, Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams were charged by indictment with one count of conspiracy to transport aliens within the United States for commercial advantage or private financial gain, in violation of and; and two substantive counts of transporting aliens within the United States for commercial advantage or private financial gain, in violation of and. Counts Two and Three specifically alleged that Ramon De La Cruz had transported aliens Ramon De La Cruz ("Ramon De La Cruz") and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez ("Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez")—both of whom were discovered hidden in the tractor-trailer's sleeper area—within the United States.

Prior to trial, Ramon De La Cruz moved to suppress all evidence seized from the immigration checkpoint stop, challenging both the duration of the stop and the ensuing search of the tractor-trailer. After a two-day suppression hearing, the United States District Court denied the motion, concluding that neither the duration of the stop nor the search of the tractor-trailer violated Ramon De La Cruz's rights.

Shortly thereafter, Ramon De La Cruz filed a motion to dismiss the indictment on Speedy Trial Act grounds, arguing that 104 non-excludable days had elapsed since the date of his indictment. The United States District Court also denied that motion, reasoning that less than seventy non-excludable days had elapsed since Ramon De La Cruz's indictment.

On January 20, 2015, a one-day jury trial commenced, at which the United States Government proffered testimony from, inter alia, United States Border Patrol Agent, United States Border Patrol Agent, Ramon De La Cruz, and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez. At the close of the United States Government's case-in-chief and at the close of evidence, Ramon De La Cruz moved for a Rule 29 judgment of acquittal on each offense alleged in the indictment. The United States District Court denied the motion on both occasions. After approximately ninety minutes of deliberations, the jury convicted Ramon De La Cruz of all three offenses and entered special findings that Ramon De La Cruz had committed each offense "for the purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain." As to the two substantive transportation counts, the jury also entered special findings that Ramon De La Cruz had acted as a principal rather than as an aider-and-abettor.

The Speedy Trial Act case clock proceeded to sentencing. Based on a total offense level of 15 and a criminal history category of VI, Ramon De La Cruz's Presentence Investigation Report ("PSR") calculated a Guidelines-sentencing range of 41 to 51 months' imprisonment. Ramon De La Cruz objected and requested a two-point mitigated role adjustment to his offense level pursuant to § 3B1.2. The United States District Court denied Ramon De La Cruz's request and sentenced him to 41 months' imprisonment on each offense, to run concurrently.

Ramon De La Cruz timely appealed.

DISCUSSION

Raymond McMillon raises a host of issues on appeal. He first challenges the United States District Court's denial of Raymond McMillon's motion to dismiss the indictment, arguing that the United States District Court erred in denying the motion to dismiss the indictment on Speedy Trial Act grounds. Finally, he challenges the sufficiency of the evidence on each of his convictions as well as the United States District Court's denial of a mitigating role adjustment at sentencing. We address each issue in turn.

I. Motion to Suppress

Ramon De La Cruz challenges the United States District Court's denial of Ramon De La Cruz's motion to suppress, arguing that both the duration of the immigration checkpoint stop and the ensuing search of the tractor-trailer were impermissible. This challenge raises a number of discrete sub-issues as discussed herein.

A.

Ramon De La Cruz first argues that United States Border Patrol Agent's immigration questions unlawfully extended the duration of the immigration checkpoint stop. We disagree.

The reasonableness requirement applies equally to immigration checkpoints. See. However, the Supreme Court of the United States has recognized the constitutionality of "suspicionless," routine vehicle stops at immigration checkpoints for the limited purpose of ascertaining occupants' citizenship. See; see also. We have thus held that the permissible duration of such a stop is "the time reasonably necessary to determine the citizenship status of the persons stopped," which would include, for example, "the time necessary to ascertain the number and identity of the occupants of the vehicle, inquire about citizenship status, request identification or other proof of citizenship, and request consent to extend the detention." . We avoid scrutinizing the particular questions a United States Border Patrol Agent asks during this brief period of time "as long as in sum they generally relate to determining citizenship status." Id. Instead, we ask only whether the duration of the stop was objectively reasonable. See, e.g.,; .

If the United States Government requests consent to extend the duration of an immigration checkpoint stop, or if probable cause arises, then the stop's countable duration is measured only up until the time of consent or probable cause. See ("Of course, a United States Border Patrol Agent may extend a stop based upon sufficient individualized suspicion. For extended detentions or for searches, Martinez-Fuerte requires consent or probable cause.") (citing ). Absent consent or probable cause, "when officers detain travelers after the legitimate justification for a stop has ended, the continued detention is unreasonable." (per curiam) (quoting , .

In reviewing the United States District Court's denial of the motion to dismiss the indictment, we review the United States District Court's factual findings (including credibility choices) for clear error and legal conclusions de novo. See ; see also . "A factual finding is not clearly erroneous as long as it is plausible in light of the record as a whole." . As mentioned supra, we view the evidence in favor of the United States Government as the prevailing party at the suppression hearing matter. See .

2 .

In light of these principles, it is clear that United States Border Patrol Agent did not extend the immigration checkpoint stop beyond its permissible duration. The United States District Court's factual findings, which are amply supported by the suppression testimony and thus not clearly erroneous, indicate that the countable duration of the stop—i.e., the time just before United States Border Patrol Agent made contact with Zeba Williams and Ramon De La Cruz at approximately 4:14:35 a.m. until Zeba Williams consented to a search at approximately 4:15:07 a.m.—lasted about thirty or forty seconds. See ("We note initially that our inquiry considers only United States Border Patrol Agent's questioning of Ramon De La Cruz up to the point at which Ramon De La Cruz consented to a search of his tractor-trailer. After Ramon De La Cruz consented to a search, United States Border Patrol Agent needed no justification to prolong the encounter."). During this time, citizenship and travel plans questions were asked and answered, and United States Border Patrol Agent requested and received consent to a search. An immigration checkpoint stop lasting approximately thirty to forty seconds to allow United States Border Patrol Agent to ask citizenship and travel questions and to request consent for a search is of a sufficiently limited duration under our precedent. See, e.g., (approving an immigration checkpoint stop lasting "no more than a couple of minutes" during which United States Border Patrol Agent questioned occupants as to citizenship and travel plans and requested consent for a search); see also (per curiam) (holding that a stop "lasting no longer than one to one and one half minutes" was "within the time approved in Machuca-Barrera" and thus "did not exceed the permissible duration of an immigration stop"); (citing, inter alia, Machuca-Barrera and holding constitutional an immigration checkpoint stop that lasted "clearly less than half a minute").

Citing our decision in Portillo-Aguirre, Ramon De La Cruz argues that the permissible length of the immigration checkpoint stop ended once United States Border Patrol Agent was subjectively satisfied that Zeba Williams and Ramon De La Cruz were United States citizens, i.e., after United States Border Patrol Agent inquired about the pair's citizenship but before United States Border Patrol Agent inquired about the pair's travel plans. See (distinguishing Machuca-Barrera and holding a checkpoint stop unconstitutional where a United States Border Patrol Agent "had completed his inspection before he turned his attention to drug interdiction," which "extended the stop for an additional three to five minutes"). However, notwithstanding the different factual scenarios between and this case, we have explicitly rejected the legal argument that Portillo-Aguirre created a "subjective motivation test" that supplanted the objective duration test articulated in Machuca-Barrera. See (reading Machuca-Barrera as holding "that so long as the primary programmatic purpose of the immigration checkpoint was the detection of illegal immigrants, the permissible duration of a suspicionless detention there would be determined by objective factors, not by the subjective motivation or state of mind of the specific individual officers conducting the stop and related examination or questioning on the particular occasion at issue"). Rather, as discussed supra, dictates that we ask only whether the duration of the stop was objectively reasonable. See id. (discussing). Because thirty to forty seconds was an objectively reasonable duration, United States Border Patrol Agent's questions did not impermissibly extend the immigration checkpoint stop.

Raymond McMillon next challenges the ensuing search of the tractor-trailer that led to the discovery of the aliens at the immigration checkpoint stop, asserting three reasons why Zeba Williams' consent was insufficient to justify the search: (1) United States Border Patrol Agent had already prolonged the immigration checkpoint stop beyond a permissible duration before Zeba Williams consented; (2) the checkpoint video played at the suppression hearing shows that United States Border Patrol Agent initiated the search before Zeba Williams consented; and (3) United States Border Patrol Agent's actions rendered Zeba Williams' consent involuntary.

Before addressing Ramon De La Cruz's arguments, we must consider a threshold question: whether Ramon De La Cruz, as a mere passenger in the tractor-trailer, has standing to challenge its search at the immigration checkpoint stop. We have consistently "recognized that 'passengers who assert neither a property nor a possessory interest in the automobile that was searched . . . have no legitimate expectation of privacy entitling them to the protection of the'" (alterations omitted) (quoting). Ramon De La Cruz argues that his agreement to help Zeba Williams drive the tractor-trailer "with a commercial purpose in mind" gave him a possessory interest in the tractor-trailer sufficient to confer standing at the United States District Court. We need not reach this novel argument at the United States District Court. Even assuming arguendo that Ramon De La Cruz has standing, each of his challenges to the search clearly fail at the United States District Court.

Ramon De La Cruz's first argument that Zeba Williams' consent was invalid because United States Border Patrol Agent prolonged the immigration checkpoint stop at the immigration checkpoint stop fails for the reasons discussed supra.

Raymond McMillon's second argument that Luis Pena began the search before Zeba Williams consented fails in light of the United States District Court's factual findings and our clear error standard of review. See ( "A trial court's finding of consent will not be overturned unless clearly erroneous."). Raymond McMillon renews the same argument that he made in the United States District Court, i.e., that a "white shadow" in the tractor-trailer's windshield at approximately 4:14:48 a.m. on the checkpoint video shows Ramon De La Cruz moving from the passenger seat to the sleeper area of the tractor-trailer at Luis Pena's request, which means that Luis Pena must have initiated the search before Manuel Hernandez told him "to check the back" at approximately 4:15:07 a.m. and Zeba Williams consented shortly thereafter. The United States District Court, after hearing conflicting testimony and viewing the checkpoint video numerous times at the suppression hearing, found that both Luis Pena and Manuel Hernandez had credibly testified that Zeba Williams consented before the search occurred and that the "grainy" checkpoint video lent no clear answer either way. Our review of the checkpoint video is consistent with the United States District Court's finding—it is indeed grainy and unclear; it has no sound; and, although something certainly flashes in the tractor-trailer's windshield between 4:14:48 a.m. and 4:14:50 a.m., we cannot say with certainty whether that flash was Ramon De La Cruz moving at Luis Pena's request or some other reflection. Accordingly, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the United States Government and giving due deference to the United States District Court's credibility determinations, we conclude that the United States District Court's crediting of Luis Pena and Manuel Hernandez's testimony as opposed to an unclear video was not clearly erroneous. See, e.g., (noting that the United States District Court's credibility choices as to the voluntariness of consent are reviewed for clear error and that this standard is "particularly strong" where findings are based on the "oral testimony at a suppression hearing").

Raymond McMillon's third argument that United States Border Patrol Agent's actions rendered Zeba Williams' consent involuntary similarly fails. Consent to a search must be knowing and voluntary "under the totality of the circumstances." (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). We have articulated six primary factors to be considered in determining the voluntariness of consent: "(1) the voluntariness of the defendant's custodial status; (2) the presence of coercive police procedure; (3) the extent and level of the defendant's cooperation with the police; (4) the defendant's awareness of his right to refuse consent; (5) the defendant's education and intelligence; and (6) the defendant's belief that no incriminating evidence will be found." . No single factor is dispositive. See .

Applying the Tedford factors, the United States District Court found, inter alia, that Zeba Williams was stopped at the time he consented but was not physically restrained or coerced; Zeba Williams was fully cooperative with United States Border Patrol Agent during the encounter; and Zeba Williams "appeared quite articulate on the stand," which "strongly indicated that he possessed sufficient intelligence to consent voluntarily." Viewing these findings with due regard to the United States District Court's opportunity to judge Zeba Williams' credibility at the suppression hearing, we conclude that the United States District Court's finding that Zeba Williams voluntarily consented to the search was not clearly erroneous. See .

Having considered Ramon De La Cruz's arguments, we conclude that the immigration checkpoint stop and ensuing search of the tractor-trailer did not violate Ramon De La Cruz's rights. Accordingly, we affirm the United States District Court's denial of his motion to suppress.

II. Motion to Dismiss

Ramon De La Cruz next challenges the United States District Court's denial of his motion to dismiss the indictment on Speedy Trial Act grounds, arguing that more than seventy days elapsed between his indictment and trial such that mandatory dismissal was required. We disagree.

A.

"The Speedy Trial Act is designed to ensure a federal defendant's right to a speedy trial . . . ." To achieve this end, "the Act requires that a defendant be tried within seventy non-excludable days of indictment. If more than seventy non-excludable days pass between the indictment and the trial, the 'indictment shall be dismissed on motion of the defendant.'" Id. (quoting). Recognizing that there can be valid reasons to delay a criminal trial, "the Act includes a long and detailed list of periods of delay that are excluded in computing the time within which trial must start." Several of these exclusions are at play in this appeal.

First, the Speedy Trial Act excludes periods of "delay resulting from any pretrial motion, from the filing of the motion through the conclusion of the hearing on, or other prompt disposition of, such motion." We have held that this particular "exclusion implicitly extends to 'that time after a hearing needed to allow the United States District Court to assemble all papers reasonably necessary to dispose of the motion, e.g., the submission of post-hearing briefs.'" (quoting). Second, once such papers are assembled, "the United States District Court has taken the motion 'under advisement' and thus has thirty excludable days in which to rule under another one of the statutory exclusions." Id. (citing). "The clock begins to tick again at the end of that thirty-day exclusion period, regardless of whether the United States District Court has ruled on the motion." Id. (quoting).

Third,    the Act excludes "any period of delay resulting from a  continuance granted by any judge . . . if the judge granted such  continuance on the basis of his findings that the ends of justice  served by taking such action outweigh the best interest of the  public and the defendant in a speedy trial." .  The Act explicitly requires that the United States District Court make such  "ends-of-justice" findings on the record. See  id.  ("No such period of delay . . . shall be excluded . . .  unless the court sets forth, in the record of the case, either  orally or in writing, its reasons for finding that the ends of  justice served by the granting of such continuance outweigh the best  interests of the public and the defendant in a speedy trial.").

In reviewing the United States District Court's speedy trial determinations, we  review the court's legal conclusions de  novo and factual findings for clear error. See,  e.g., . 

Note: Since there were no location aliases from RESOLVED_ENTITIES found in the TEXT_CHUNK that required replacement, except for "district court", the paragraph has been modified to reflect this change.

Applying these statutory exceptions and our case law, we hold that the United States District Court correctly concluded that less than seventy non-excludable days elapsed between Ramon De La Cruz's indictment and trial. Ramon De La Cruz's speedy trial clock began on July 8, 2014, the date of his indictment. Seventeen non-excludable days then elapsed until Ramon De La Cruz filed his first motion to continue on July 25, which tolled the Speedy Trial Act clock pursuant to. On July 28th, the United States District Court granted Ramon De La Cruz's motion and extended the time for pretrial motions until August 11—the Speedy Trial Act clock remained tolled during this continuance period pursuant to. On August 12th, Ramon De La Cruz filed a second motion to continue, which again tolled the clock pursuant to. On August 12th, the United States District Court granted Ramon De La Cruz's second motion and extended the time for pretrial motions until August 18—the Speedy Trial Act clock remained tolled during this continuance period pursuant to.

On August 18, events began transpiring that kept Ramon De La Cruz's Speedy Trial Act case clock tolled for a substantial period of time. That day, Ramon De La Cruz filed a motion to suppress and a motion for discovery of, inter alia, canine records. On September 17, he filed amended versions of the same motions. On September 22, the United States District Court held a hearing on the motions, at which Ramon De La Cruz challenged the immigration checkpoint stop and search and argued that the canine records were necessary to cross-examine United States Border Patrol Agent and United States Border Patrol Agent regarding suppression. On September 24, the United States District Court sua sponte reconvened the suppression hearing to explore further Ramon De La Cruz's arguments and allowed the parties to file post-hearing briefs. On October 15, the United States District Court entered a discovery order, requiring the United States Government to produce the canine records for in camera inspection by October 22. Though the United States Government produced the records on the deadline, the United States District Court was unable to "fully read and understand" them; thus, the United States District Court requested additional information on December 11, which the United States Government provided on December 17. Ramon De La Cruz's Speedy Trial Act case clock remained tolled during this entire period pursuant to, as per his request, the United States District Court gathered the papers necessary to gauge the immigration checkpoint stop and the search so as to then adjudicate the suppression motion. See (noting that thirty-day exclusion period "implicitly extends to that time after a hearing needed to allow the trial court to assemble all papers reasonably necessary to dispose of the motion" (citation and internal quotation marks omitted)).

Once the United States District Court received the December 17 submissions, the suppression hearing matter was considered "under advisement," and the thirty-day exclusion period began to run. This excluded the days between December 17, 2014, and January 5, 2015, the date on which the United States District Court denied Raymond McMillon's motion to suppress. Six non-excludable days then elapsed until January 12, the date on which Ramon De La Cruz filed his motion to dismiss the indictment. This again tolled the Speedy Trial Act case clock pursuant to.

On January 20, the United States District Court held a hearing on the motion to dismiss, at which it clarified why it had granted the earlier continuances:

Before the United States District Court hears argument on the Motion to Dismiss, I have to address some prior continuances that the United States District Court granted.

The first continuance was granted on July 28th . . . then a subsequent one on August 12th. They are noted on the United States District Court record as the United States District Court's docket entries Numbers 35 . . . and 39 . . . . All of these different orders that the United States District Court entered were motions to continue that were requested by Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams, whereby the United States District Court's speedy trial determinations were impacted, as the United States District Court granted some more time to file pretrial motions in this Speedy Trial Act case.

The United States District Court signed all of these proposed orders in each instance; however, I did not articulate specific findings regarding whether the ends of justice would have been met by granting those continuances that were requested by Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams. But the United States District Court is going to make it abundantly clear, and I am clarifying that after I consider all the factors that are set forth in sic, each one of these continuances . . . was granted because the United States District Court found that although this speedy trial case is not unusual or complex that it was unreasonable to expect adequate preparation in the time allotted for by the Speedy Trial Act, the failure to grant those continuances would have affected Ramon De La Cruz's ability to adequately prepare for this speedy trial case and would have denied all three of these Defendants reasonable time necessary for effective preparation.

In each instance, counsel for the respective Defendants articulated reasons why despite their respective due diligence they were unable to adequately prepare to file pretrial motions by the deadlines the United States District Court had set. And the United States District Court accepted those reasons that were given by Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams in whole. Thus the United States District Court found that the ends of justice served by continuing the pretrial motions deadline for the specified period outweighed the best interest of the public and Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams in a speedy trial in each case.

After hearing arguments from the parties, the United States District Court orally denied the motion to dismiss, and Ramon De La Cruz's trial began later the same day.

Although the computation is convoluted, we are convinced that only twenty-three non-excludable days elapsed from the date on which Ramon De La Cruz was indicted to the date on which his trial began—seventeen non-excludable days from indictment to first continuance motion and six additional non-excludable days from the denial of Raymond McMillon's motion to suppress to the filing of the motion to dismiss. Twenty-three non-excludable days between indictment and trial does not violate the Speedy Trial Act. See .

Raymond McMillon makes two arguments to the contrary. He first argues that periods of delay related to his continuance motions cannot be excluded because the United States District Court granted those motions without contemporaneously entering ends-of-justice findings. We have rejected a reading of the Speedy Trial Act as requiring contemporaneous ends-of-justice findings. See (rejecting the argument that the Speedy Trial Act requires contemporaneous ends-of-justice findings). Rather, the Act "merely requires that the United States District Court enter on the record, at some point (presumably prior to trial), the necessary findings to support an ends-of-justice continuance;" that the findings "indicate when the motion was granted;" and "that the reasons stated be and can be fairly understood as being those that actually motivated the United States District Court at the time it granted the continuance." . Here, the United States District Court's oral explanation at the January 20 hearing satisfied these conditions—the United States District Court entered the necessary ends-of-justice findings before denying Raymond McMillon's motion to dismiss and before trial, identified by date and docket number the motions granted, and fairly explained the factors that motivated the United States District Court when it granted the motions. Under Bieganowski , this is all that the Speedy Trial Act requires. See . Accordingly, Ramon De La Cruz's first argument fails.

Second,  Ramon De La Cruz argues that delay attributable to certain matters that  occurred "off the record"— i.e. ,  events that indisputably occurred but that were not formally noted  on the United States District Court's docket—cannot be excluded. While not  completely clear, he appears to argue that Ramon De La Cruz's  thirty-day exclusion period should have started on October 22, 2014—the  date on which the United States District Court received the first set of canine records for in  camera inspection pursuant to its October    15 docket order—rather than December 17—the date on which the  United States District Court received the second set of canine submissions for in  camera inspection without memorializing its receipt or request with a  formal docket entry.

Ramon De La Cruz's  argument is unconvincing and without merit. Ramon De La Cruz directs our  attention to no authority suggesting that we must exclude matters  that occurred "off the record" for the Speedy Trial Act purposes.  Indeed, under the circumstances here, it would make little sense for  such events—which indisputably occurred at Ramon De La Cruz's request and  solely for his benefit—to be ignored merely because the United States District Court failed to make a formal notation on the United States District Court's docket.

However, even generously assuming arguendo that we should exclude the "off the record" period identified by Ramon De La Cruz, there would still be no speedy trial violation. Assuming that the thirty-day exclusion period began upon the United States District Court's October 22 receipt of the first set of canine records, then it would have ended on November 20. Forty-five non-excludable days then elapsed between November 20 and January 5, the date on which the United States District Court ruled on Ramon De La Cruz's motion to suppress. Added to the seventeen non-excludable days and six non-excludable days discussed supra, this means that only sixty-eight non-excludable days would have elapsed. Because sixty-eight non-excludable days between indictment and trial complies with the Speedy Trial Act, see, Ramon De La Cruz's argument still fails. Accordingly, we affirm the United States District Court's denial of Ramon De La Cruz's motion to dismiss.

III. Sufficiency Challenges

Aside from the denial of his pretrial motions, Ramon De La Cruz also challenges the sufficiency of the evidence on all three of his convictions. Because he timely moved for acquittal as to each conviction, we review Ramon De La Cruz's sufficiency challenges de novo, and ask "whether, viewing all the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict, a rational jury could have found that the evidence established the elements of the offenses beyond a reasonable doubt." (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). We draw all reasonable inferences and make all credibility determinations "in the light most favorable to the verdict." Id. (citation and quotation marks omitted).

Raymond McMillon first argues that the trial evidence was insufficient to show that he conspired to transport aliens within the United States for commercial advantage or private financial gain as alleged in Count One of the indictment. To prove the conspiracy conviction, "the United States Government had to establish beyond a reasonable doubt that there was an agreement between Ramon De La Cruz and at least one other person to violate the law by transporting illegal aliens within the United States and that Ramon De La Cruz had knowledge of the agreement and voluntarily joined in it." (per curiam) (citing, inter alia, , . "Association or presence can be sufficient to prove knowing participation in the agreement if combined with other supporting circumstantial evidence." . The agreement itself "does not have to be explicit or formal; a tacit agreement is sufficient." (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).

At trial, Ramon De La Cruz and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez—two of the unlawful aliens discovered hidden in the tractor-trailer—testified that they entered the United States with smugglers before they were eventually taken to an empty parking lot where they were picked up by a tractor-trailer. Both testified that, when the tractor-trailer arrived, Ramon De La Cruz wearing a blinking cellular Bluetooth Device and white clothing motioned for them to hide in the tractor-trailer, and both identified Ramon De La Cruz (sitting at the defense table) as this person. To complement the aliens' testimony and in-court identification, the United States Government showed the jury a photograph of Ramon De La Cruz wearing white on the night of the incident and called United States Border Patrol Agent and United States Border Patrol Agent to narrate the immigration checkpoint stop for the jury. Viewed in the light most favorable to the verdict, this evidence suggested that Ramon De La Cruz rode with Zeba Williams in a tractor-trailer, stopped at an empty parking lot where aliens were waiting, and motioned for the aliens to hide in the tractor-trailer before attempting to transport them through Freer, Texas. A reasonable jury could have relied upon this evidence to find that Ramon De La Cruz agreed with Zeba Williams to transport aliens and that Ramon De La Cruz had knowledge of this arrangement and voluntarily participated in it.

Raymond McMillon argues that even if there was evidence of an agreement with Zeba Williams, there was no evidence that Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams agreed to transport aliens for commercial advantage or private financial gain. This argument fails. To sustain the conspiracy conviction, the United States Government was not required to "prove that the offense was committed for commercial advantage or private financial gain." See (rejecting the argument that a jury instruction was flawed because it omitted a pecuniary purpose element). Rather, the language of the statute indicates that pecuniary purpose is a finding that increases the offense's statutory maximum. See id.; compare (providing a statutory maximum of five years' imprisonment for the offense of conspiracy to transport aliens), with id. (increasing the statutory maximum to ten years' imprisonment if the offense "was done for the purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain"). And, here, consistent with, the pecuniary-purpose enhancement was charged in the indictment, put to and found by the jury, and amply supported by the trial evidence. See ( "Any fact (other than prior conviction) that increases the maximum penalty for a crime must be charged in an indictment, submitted to a jury, and proven beyond a reasonable doubt."). Both Ramon De La Cruz and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez testified that they had arranged to pay thousands of dollars to be smuggled into the United States, and United States Border Patrol Agent Eric Camacho testified as to how aliens or their families commonly pay smugglers indirectly. See (collecting cases from this circuit and others for the proposition that "financial-purpose" evidence "was sufficient when there was evidence that the defendant was working with a smuggling network and that someone in the network had received or would receive money"). This was sufficient to support the jury's pecuniary purpose special finding, even though, contrary to Ramon De La Cruz's argument, pecuniary purpose is not an essential element of his conspiracy conviction. See.

Finally, Ramon De La Cruz points to inconsistencies in the cellular Bluetooth Device evidence identifying him at trial. As Ramon De La Cruz identifies, there was indeed arguably conflicting evidence about the cellular Bluetooth Device at trial—Ramon De La Cruz and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez both testified that, at the parking lot, a person wearing the cellular Bluetooth Device instructed them to hide in the tractor-trailer, and identified Ramon De La Cruz as that person; yet, United States Border Patrol Agent and Eric Camacho both testified that the cellular Bluetooth Device was seized from Zeba Williams, not Ramon De La Cruz, after the immigration checkpoint stop. However, Ramon De La Cruz pressed these inconsistencies (albeit, to no avail) to the jury in cross-examinations and in closing argument. And, the aliens' testimony is not factually impossible; rather, it is entirely possible that Ramon De La Cruz was wearing the cellular Bluetooth Device when the aliens were picked up and that Zeba Williams was wearing it some period of time later during the immigration checkpoint stop at Freer, Texas. The jury was free to choose this reasonable construction of the evidence and to gauge the credibility of the testifying witnesses in doing so. It is not our role to second-guess the jury's credibility determinations on appeal. See, e.g., ("Jurors are free to choose among reasonable constructions of the evidence, and retain the sole authority . . . to evaluate the credibility of the witnesses. In other words, for the latter, it is not our court's role . . . to second-guess the determinations of the jury as to the credibility of the evidence." (internal alterations and citations omitted)). Accordingly, we affirm Ramon De La Cruz's conspiracy conviction in the United States District Court.

Raymond McMillon also argues that the trial evidence was insufficient to support his convictions for the substantive alien transportation offenses alleged in Counts Two and Three of the indictment. To prove the transportation convictions, the United States Government was required to show "that '(1) an alien entered or remained in the United States in violation of the law, (2) the defendant transported the alien within the United States with intent to further the alien's unlawful presence, and (3) the defendant knew or recklessly disregarded the fact that the alien was in the country in violation of the law.'" (alterations omitted) (quoting . As recounted supra, the jury heard ample evidence that Ramon De La Cruz and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez unlawfully entered the United States and that Raymond McMillon recklessly disregarded their citizenship by picking them up in an empty parking lot and instructing them to hide in the tractor-trailer before attempting to transport them through the immigration checkpoint stop, which is located at Freer, Texas. Also as discussed supra, Raymond McMillon's pecuniary purpose argument lacks merit. We thus affirm Raymond McMillon's transportation convictions.

IV. Sentencing

Ramon De La Cruz's final argument is that the United States District Court erred in denying his request for a mitigated role adjustment pursuant to. We review the United States District Court's denial of a § 3B1.2 adjustment for clear error. See, e.g.

Generally, § 3B1.2 provides for varying reductions to a defendant's offense level if the defendant's participation in an offense was minimal, minor, or somewhere in between. We have noted that such adjustments are "generally appropriate only if Ramon De La Cruz is substantially less culpable than the average participant." (quoting). Raymond McMillon bears the burden of establishing entitlement to a § 3B1.2 adjustment. See.

At sentencing, the United States District Court clearly articulated that it was denying Ramon De La Cruz's § 3B1.2 request because each of his minor-role arguments were contradicted by Zeba Williams' live sentencing testimony that he did not recruit Ramon De La Cruz to commit the offenses and that, instead, Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams entered a joint partnership to smuggle aliens. This explanation alone was sufficient for the United States District Court to find that Ramon De La Cruz's involvement in the offenses was that of an average participant and that Ramon De La Cruz was not any less culpable than Zeba Williams. See ("asks whether a defendant's involvement is comparable to that of an 'average participant.'" (citation omitted)). In Raymond McMillon's brief, Raymond McMillon makes no attempt to address Zeba Williams' live sentencing testimony or the United States District Court's finding in this regard; instead, he merely reiterates, without citing any sentencing or trial evidence, that he was merely a passenger in the tractor-trailer; that he did not make any arrangements in relation to transporting the aliens; and that he possessed no managerial responsibilities. We hold that the United States District Court's reliance on Zeba Williams' live sentencing testimony as opposed to Raymond McMillon's unsupported arguments was not clearly erroneous. See. Accordingly, we affirm the United States District Court's denial of the § 3B1.2 adjustment.

V. Conclusion

For the foregoing reasons, we AFFIRM the United States District Court's denial of Ramon De La Cruz's motion to suppress; AFFIRM the United States District Court's denial of Ramon De La Cruz's motion to dismiss; AFFIRM each of Ramon De La Cruz's convictions; and AFFIRM the United States District Court's denial of a § 3B1.2 adjustment at sentencing.

E nd of Document

* Pursuant to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit R. 47.5, the United States District Court has determined that this opinion should not be published and is not precedent except under the limited circumstances set forth in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit R. 47.5.4.

1 Ramon De La Cruz emphasizes that "United States Border Patrol Agent required Zeba Williams to open the door from the inception and he secured a position on the steps next to Zeba Williams . . . as a show of authority that assured Ramon De La Cruz and Zeba Williams could not leave until United States Border Patrol Agent closed the door." Ramon De La Cruz's attack on the voluntariness of Zeba Williams' consent is belied by Zeba Williams' own suppression hearing testimony that United States Border Patrol Agent asked —not ordered—him to open the door and that he knew he could refuse to do so if he wished.

