That some of the passengers "were sitting low" was held insufficient to justify the stop in United States v. Pena-Cantu. Such a static condition is one common to vehicle passengers. The same ruling was made in United States v. Orona-Sanchez, 648 F.2d at 1041-42, respecting the circumstance that, between the time the vehicle initially drove by the then stationary agents and the time the agents later caught up with and passed it, two of the passengers "had 'sort of slouched down'" so only the tops of their heads were visible to the passing agents. However, it was after dark and that character of change over several minutes to a more recumbent position by nighttime passengers is not unusual. Moreover, in United States v. Orona-Sanchez we gave "substantial weight to the fact that these agents were new to the area . . . ." Id. at 1042. In United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, we held the fact that "passengers in the back seat appeared to slouch down" as the vehicle passed the agents, while "certainly a suspicious reaction," was nevertheless not "on its own sufficient" to justify the stop. In United States v. Pacheco we made the same holding respecting similar testimony that the passengers "'hunkered down' in the seat." While the passenger conduct in Lamas and Pacheco is more suspicious than that in United States v. Pena-Cantu and United States v. Orona-Sanchez, it is clearly less suspicious than the more extensive, active, abrupt, and obviously evasive conduct described by Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron here. Ducking and scrambling around is certainly less typical of innocent passengers than slouching or hunkering down. Cf. e.g., United States v. Brignoni-Ponce (distinguishing United States v. Orona-Sanchez and United States v. Pacheco). Because "each case must turn on the totality of the particular circumstances" in that case, United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, while we consider the clearly evasive actions of the passengers in Maria De Jesus Garcia's camper as a significant factor in justifying the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas, we need not determine whether it alone would suffice, other factors also being present here.