Michael Brett Jacquinot is a defendant.

PER CURIAM:

Michael Brett Jacquinot appeals his conditional guilty plea conviction and sentence for possession with intent to distribute marijuana. Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot argues that the U.S. District Court erred by: (1) denying Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's motion to suppress the evidence obtained from a roving United States/Mexican Border Patrol stop of the large white Ford pickup truck in which Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot was a passenger and (2) applying to increase Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's base offense level for possession of a firearm. We affirm.

I. FACTS

Michael Brett Jacquinot was indicted for possession with the intent to distribute between 100 and 1,000 kilograms of marijuana, in violation of . Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot moved to suppress the evidence obtained as the result of the stop of the large white Ford pickup truck in which Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot was riding, asserting that Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass, who are part of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, did not have reasonable suspicion to stop the large white Ford pickup truck.

An evidentiary hearing was held on Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's motion. United States/Mexican Border Patrol Agent Andrew P. Graham, a three-year veteran of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, testified that he and eleven-year veteran United States/Mexican Border Patrol Agent Jay Snodgrass were stationed in Alpine, Texas, and were assigned to patrol a 140-mile area of the United States/Mexican Border, including the Big Bend National Park. While Andrew P. Graham's patrol experience was all in the Alpine, Texas, area, Jay Snodgrass had transferred to Alpine a few months earlier, having previously served at the Marfa Sector Area Operations Center and the Laredo, Texas, border area. During his tenure with the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, Andrew P. Graham had been involved with at least 30 narcotics cases and 15 to 20 alien smuggling cases.

Texas Highway 385 is notorious for smuggling, and in the prior six months, Andrew P. Graham had noticed an increase in alien and smuggling apprehensions on that highway. Andrew P. Graham attributed this increase in activity on Texas Highway 385 to the United States/Mexican Border Patrol's enhanced enforcement on other nearby highways.

In the early morning hours of Sunday, January 16, 2000, Agents Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass, who are part of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, were parked on Texas Highway 385, approximately 75 miles north of the United States/Mexican Border. At 5:45 a.m., the agents, who are law enforcement officers of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, were notified by Marfa Sector Area Operations Center Communications that vehicle sensors located inside Big Bend National Park and well within 50 miles of the United States/Mexican Border had indicated a large white Ford pickup truck and another vehicle traveling from within the park. The area in which the sensors are located is very remote and is intersected only by ranch roads. The fact that two vehicles activated the sensors at approximately the same time made Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, suspicious that one may be a lead car and the other a load car carrying contraband. Subsequent vehicle sensors were triggered, indicating to Agent Andrew P. Graham, a member of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, that the large white Ford pickup truck and another vehicle that had triggered the first sensor were continuing toward their location.

At approximately 6:45 a.m., United States/Mexican Border Patrol observed two vehicles pass by his location. United States/Mexican Border Patrol believed that these were the vehicles that had activated the first sensor within Big Bend National Park, and he and Jay Snodgrass began to follow them in separate marked United States/Mexican Border Patrol vehicles. The first vehicle that had passed the agents' location was a late model four-door sedan carrying an older Anglo couple and bearing a Big Bend National Park registration receipt taped to the windshield and a Mississippi license plate. The vehicle appeared typical of the tourist traffic coming out of Big Bend National Park. United States/Mexican Border Patrol got directly behind the vehicle to check its registration, and the vehicle continued to drive normally. United States/Mexican Border Patrol concluded that the first vehicle was probably not involved in any illegal activity.

The large white Ford pickup truck was a large white Ford pickup truck with a lot of equipment in its bed; it appeared to be a work vehicle and did not have a park sticker on its windshield. Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, was able to see only that the driver was a small-framed person wearing a baseball cap. Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, was surprised to see a work vehicle coming out of Big Bend National Park on a Sunday morning before six o'clock. He normally saw construction vehicles leaving Big Bend National Park in groups at the end of the work day or on Friday evenings at the end of the work week. The large white Ford pickup truck bore a Kansas license plate, which made Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, suspicious because Big Bend National Park typically hires contractors from the Alpine, Texas area. Additionally, Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, was aware of a recent narcotics smuggling operation in the Alpine, Texas area destined for locations in Kansas.

Agent Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, got to within two car lengths of the large white Ford pickup truck to read the registration and then followed the large white Ford pickup truck from ten car lengths. Agents Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass, agents of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, continued to follow the large white Ford pickup truck while they awaited registration information on it. The large white Ford pickup truck slowed to fifteen miles per hour below the average speed limit. Typically, Agent Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, does not see vehicles dramatically change their speed unless the vehicle was not traveling the speed limit before being followed by an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol. The agents were unable to obtain the registration information because of computer-system problems, but they continued to follow the large white Ford pickup truck. As the large white Ford pickup truck approached Marathon, Texas, it stopped at a stop sign, activated its left turn signal, and then remained stopped for five seconds before turning left onto Highway 90. Agent Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, found the large white Ford pickup truck's pause at the stop sign to be much longer than what he normally sees. Agent Andrew P. Graham, an agent of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, also found the large white Ford pickup truck's left turn to be strange because most vehicles coming up Texas Highway 385 would continue straight on that road toward Fort Stockton and Interstate 10. By turning left, the large white Ford pickup truck began traveling toward Alpine, Texas; however, the most direct and logical route of travel from Big Bend National Park to Alpine, Texas is Highway 118. In Agent Andrew P. Graham's experience, most visitors to such a remote area with limited gas stations have a map and know which roads to take.

The large white Ford pickup truck then drove through Marathon, Texas at 20 miles per hour. There was a school zone sign limiting speeds to 20 miles per hour when the sign was flashing, but the sign was not flashing, it was a Sunday morning, and there were no pedestrians, children, or other vehicles on the street. United States/Mexican Border Patrol felt that the large white Ford pickup truck was trying to avoid being pulled over. United States/Mexican Border Patrol confirmed Jay Snodgrass' prior observation that the large white Ford pickup truck was carrying tool boxes, a spare gas tank, and an air tank. After following the large white Ford pickup truck for a total of approximately fifteen minutes, United States/Mexican Border Patrol determined that it was more likely than not that the large white Ford pickup truck was involved in illegal activity. His determination was based on: the unusual hour that this apparently non-tourist work vehicle left Big Bend National Park; the large white Ford pickup truck's Kansas license plate, since he had personal experience with a smuggling organization transporting marijuana from the Big Bend National Park area to Kansas; the absence of a park registration sticker on the vehicle, indicating that it had not been in Big Bend National Park for any length of time; the fact that the large white Ford pickup truck appeared to have transited Big Bend National Park from the west side to the east side, which was a tactic smugglers had recently been using to circumvent United States/Mexican Border Patrol traffic or checkpoint operations; Texas Highway 385's reputation for the smuggling of aliens and narcotics; and the driver's behavior when they were following the large white Ford pickup truck. United States/Mexican Border Patrol stopped the large white Ford pickup truck 70 or 80 miles from the United States/Mexican Border.

The U.S. District Court denied Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's motion, determining that the agents' stop of the large white Ford pickup truck was justified by reasonable suspicion and did not violate the. Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot entered a conditional plea of guilty, reserving his right to appeal the denial of his suppression motion. The presentence report ("PSR") applied a two-level adjustment to Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's base offense level for the possession of a dangerous weapon, as two unloaded handguns had been found in the large white Ford pickup truck. See. Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot filed an objection to the adjustment, arguing that it was clearly improbable that the weapons had been connected to the drug offense. The U.S. District Court overruled Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's objection to the two-level adjustment.

The United States District Court sentenced Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot to 46 months' imprisonment, three years' supervised release, a $2,500 fine, and a $100 special assessment. Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot filed a timely notice of appeal.

II. ANALYSIS

a. Roving United States/Mexican Border Patrol Stop

Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot asserts that the U.S. District Court erred in denying his motion to suppress the evidence obtained from the stop of the large white Ford pickup truck. He contends that the circumstances known to United States/Mexican Border Patrol did not give rise to a reasonable suspicion that the large white Ford pickup truck was involved in illegal activities.

In reviewing the denial of a motion to suppress, the U.S. District Court's factual findings are reviewed for clear error, and its legal conclusions, including whether there was reasonable suspicion for a stop, are reviewed de novo. A factual finding is not clearly erroneous as long as it is plausible in light of the record as a whole. Further, "the evidence presented at a pre-trial hearing on a motion to suppress is viewed in the light most favorable to the prevailing party."

A United States/Mexican Border Patrol agent, such as United States/Mexican Border Patrol agents like Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass, conducting a roving patrol may make a temporary investigative stop of a vehicle only if the agent is aware of specific articulable facts, together with rational inferences from those facts, that reasonably warrant suspicion that the vehicle's occupant, such as Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot, is engaged in criminal activity. See ; . Factors that may be considered in an analysis of reasonable suspicion include: (1) proximity to the United States/Mexican Border; (2) characteristics of the area; (3) usual traffic patterns; (4) agent's previous experience in detecting illegal activity; (5) behavior of the driver, such as Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot; (6) particular aspects or characteristics of the vehicle; (7) information about recent illegal trafficking in aliens or narcotics in the area; and (8) the number, appearance, and behavior of the passengers, including Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot. ; see also . The reasonable suspicion analysis is a fact-intensive test in which the U.S. District Court looks at all circumstances together to weigh not the individual layers, but the laminated total. (5th Circuit Court), . Factors that ordinarily constitute innocent behavior may provide a composite picture sufficient to raise reasonable suspicion in the minds of experienced United States/Mexican Border Patrol officers, such as Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass, who are part of the United States/Mexican Border Patrol, which is equivalent to the Border Patrol or law enforcement officers or the agent, and work under the United States Government, where the U.S. District Court, or the district court, makes decisions based on guidelines from the 5th Circuit Court, with respect to the United States/Mexican Border area near Big Bend National Park and Texas Highway 385.

In the instant case, the U.S. District Court found that the totality of the circumstances provided United States/Mexican Border Patrol with reasonable suspicion to warrant the stop of the large white Ford pickup truck in which Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot was driving. The U.S. District Court identified the following Brignoni-Ponce factors as supporting the validity of the stop.

Proximity to the United States/Mexican Border

One of the vital elements in the reasonable suspicion test is whether United States/Mexican Border Patrol had reason to believe that the large white Ford pickup truck in question recently crossed the United States/Mexican Border. Although this circuit does not adhere to a bright line test with regard to this factor, a car traveling more than 50 miles from the United States/Mexican Border is usually viewed as being too far from the United States/Mexican Border to support an inference that it originated its journey there. The proximity element is satisfied, though, if Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's large white Ford pickup truck was first observed within 50 miles of the United States/Mexican Border, but was stopped more than 50 miles from the United States/Mexican Border. See. If there is no reason to believe that the large white Ford pickup truck came from the United States/Mexican Border, the remaining factors must be examined charily.

The U.S. District Court determined that although the large white Ford pickup truck was first sighted by United States/Mexican Border Patrol approximately 75 miles from the United States/Mexican Border, the activation of vehicle sensors in an area much less than 50 miles from the United States/Mexican Border, the absence of major roads intersecting Texas Highway 385 between the United States/Mexican Border and the point where the large white Ford pickup truck was first sighted, and the arrival of the vehicle at a time consistent with the sensor alerts "unquestionably indicated" that the large white Ford pickup truck was traveling through an area very close to the United States/Mexican Border prior to the stop. The U.S. District Court's finding in this regard was not clearly erroneous; the finding is plausible in light of the record as a whole. The U.S. District Court went on to conclude that the proximity-to-the-border element supported United States/Mexican Border Patrol's reasonable suspicion determination.

Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot asserts that the proximity-to-the-United States/Mexican Border factor should weigh against a finding of reasonable suspicion, as Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass had no reason to believe that his truck had recently crossed the United States/Mexican Border. However, given the U.S. District Court's accepted factual finding that the precipitate events clearly indicated that the large white Ford pickup truck had traveled through an area very close to the United States/Mexican Border prior to the stop, Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass did in fact have a reason to believe that the large white Ford pickup truck had recently crossed the United States/Mexican Border. Therefore, this factor does provide support for the stop. Cf. (rejecting proximity-to-the-United States/Mexican Border factor where vehicle was stopped 60 miles from the United States/Mexican Border and there was no independent reason to believe that the vehicle had not started its journey in either of the two towns between the United States/Mexican Border and the area of the stop).

Characteristics of the area

Based on Andrew P. Graham's testimony that Texas Highway 385 has a reputation as a smuggling route, the U.S. District Court concluded that the characteristics of the area supported a finding of reasonable suspicion. While Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot does not dispute that Texas Highway 385 is a notorious smuggling route, he notes that it is also a major highway used by thousands of visitors to Big Bend National Park, citing . And he points out that this U.S. District Court has cautioned that a vehicle's mere presence on a road frequently used for illegal activity, or "a smuggling route", is not sufficient to justify a stop, citing . 

Nevertheless, "it is well established that a road's reputation as a smuggling route adds to the reasonableness of the agents' suspicion." (emphasis added) (quotation and citation omitted). This factor weighs in favor of reasonable suspicion.

Usual traffic patterns

Andrew P. Graham testified that traffic is typically very light coming out of Big Bend National Park before six o'clock in the morning and that he was surprised to see a large white Ford pickup truck leaving Big Bend National Park so early on a Sunday morning. The U.S. District Court thus considered the large white Ford pickup truck's presence on Texas Highway 385 at that time to be a deviation from the typical traffic patterns that added to reasonable suspicion.

Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot argues that leaving Big Bend National Park early in the morning should not contribute to reasonable suspicion. He notes that Andrew P. Graham testified that it was not unusual for park visitors to get an early start on their trip home. However, Andrew P. Graham specifically testified that he did not believe he had ever seen a work vehicle, or more specifically, a large white Ford pickup truck, leave Big Bend National Park on a Sunday morning and that such vehicles typically leave in groups at the end of the work day or work week. The traffic-pattern factor weighs in favor of reasonable suspicion.

Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass's previous experience in detecting illegal activity in the United States/Mexican Border area, specifically around Alpine, Texas, and their knowledge of Texas Highway 385 as a route known for alien and narcotics smuggling, contributed to their suspicion.

Agent Andrew P. Graham testified that he had three years' experience serving as a United States/Mexican Border Patrol agent in Alpine, Texas and that Agent Jay Snodgrass had eleven years' experience as a United States/Mexican Border Patrol agent, with a few months of that experience in Alpine, Texas. The U.S. District Court concluded that the agents' previous experience in Alpine, Texas contributed to the reasonable suspicion determination. This factor supports the stop.

Behavior of the driver of the large white Ford pickup truck

Agent Andrew P. Graham testified that as he followed the large white Ford pickup truck, it: slowed dramatically to fifteen miles per hour below the speed limit, although it had not previously been speeding; remained stopped at a stop sign for five seconds; made an unusual turn and traveled toward Alpine, Texas on Highway 118; and obeyed a school zone sign that limited speeds while flashing, although the sign was not then flashing. The U.S. District Court concluded that the driver's behavior added to the agents' reasonable suspicion.

Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot argues that it was not suspicious for the large white Ford pickup truck to slow down after Andrew P. Graham followed it within two car lengths, passed it, and then got behind it again. He further contends that it would not be unusual for a prudent out-of-state traveler to stop at the Texas Highway 385 and Highway 90 intersection for five seconds to determine the way to Alpine, Texas, or to travel at Highway 90's posted speed limit of 20 miles per hour.

Although deceleration in the presence of a patrol car may be completely innocent behavior, United States has noted that such behavior may be suspicious if the driver was not speeding when first observed. See. And while it is questionable whether the large white Ford pickup truck's five-second pause at the stop sign and adherence to the school zone speed limit were especially suspicious, the large white Ford pickup truck's indirect travel route from Big Bend National Park to Alpine, Texas does trigger suspicion. See (approving the U.S. District Court's consideration of an indirect route as a factor supporting reasonable suspicion). This circuit affords due weight to the inferences United States/Mexican Border Patrol draw from historical facts and the events leading up to a stop. Id. Considering the totality of the driver's behavior, this factor weighs in favor of reasonable suspicion.

Particular aspects of the vehicle

Andrew P. Graham testified that the large white Ford pickup truck: was not a tourist-type vehicle, but a work vehicle carrying tool boxes, a gas tank, and an air tank; did not have a park sticker on its windshield, indicating that it had not been in any tourist areas of Big Bend National Park for any length of time; and bore a Kansas license plate, although Big Bend National Park uses local contractors. The U.S. District Court did not err in determining that the appearance of the large white Ford pickup truck contributed to Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass's reasonable suspicion.

Although the U.S. District Court did not specifically address it, the factor regarding information about recent illegal trafficking in aliens or narcotics in the area is also relevant in this case. Agent Andrew P. Graham testified that he was personally aware of "a lot of" recent narcotics smuggling taking place through the Alpine, Texas area that was destined for locations in Kansas. Since the large white Ford pickup truck in question bore a Kansas license plate, this information weighs in favor of Andrew P. Graham's reasonable suspicion determination.

Finally, as there is no indication in the record that Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot, the large white Ford pickup truck's only passenger, caused any suspicion, the factor regarding the number, appearance, and behavior of the passengers is the sole factor that does not support Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass's reasonable suspicion determination. See (stating that not every Brignoni-Ponce factor need weigh in favor of reasonable suspicion and that an officer need not eliminate all reasonable possibility of innocent travel before conducting an investigatory stop).

Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the United States Government and considering the totality of the circumstances, the U.S. District Court did not err in denying Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's motion to suppress, as Andrew P. Graham and Jay Snodgrass's stop of the large white Ford pickup truck in which he was riding was based on reasonable suspicion that the large white Ford pickup truck's occupants were engaged in illegal activity. See ; .

b. Upward adjustment for weapon possession

Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot also contends that the U.S. District Court erred in applying Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's two-level upward adjustment for possession of a weapon in connection with a drug trafficking offense. Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot argues that although there were two unloaded handguns in the large white Ford pickup truck, the United States Government failed to prove that it was not clearly improbable that Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot possessed those handguns in connection with Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's drug offense.

The U.S. District Court's decision to apply is a factual determination reviewable for clear error. provides for a two-level increase in the offense level for a drug trafficking offense "if a dangerous weapon (including a firearm) was possessed." "The United States Government has the burden of proof under  of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that a temporal and spatial relation existed between the weapon, the drug trafficking activity, and the defendant." (internal quotation and citation omitted). "Applying this standard, the United States Government must provide evidence that the weapon was found in the same location where drugs or drug paraphernalia are stored or where part of the transaction occurred." Id. (internal quotation and citation omitted). The adjustment should be applied if the weapon was present, unless the defendant establishes that it was clearly improbable that the weapon was connected with the offense. See ,  comment. (n.3); .

A PSR is generally considered sufficiently reliable to be considered by the U.S. District Court as evidence in making the factual determinations required by the sentencing guidelines. In the present case, the U.S. District Court adopted the PSR's findings that 286.44 pounds of marijuana were found in a toolbox in the bed of the large white Ford pickup truck in which Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot was riding and that two unloaded handguns were found in the cab of the large white Ford pickup truck. Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot does not contest these findings and even acknowledges that ammunition was also found in the large white Ford pickup truck. Accordingly, the U.S. District Court did not err, clearly or otherwise, in finding that was applicable because there was a temporal and spatial relationship between Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot, the guns, and his drug trafficking offense. See (applying adjustment where shotgun found in large white Ford pickup truck of vehicle used to transport drugs), vacated on other grounds by ; (applying adjustment where gun found under the seat of car used in attempted theft of narcotics).

There is no merit to Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's argument that because he was not charged with the offense of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense and because Agent Jay Snodgrass' memo stated that the guns were not loaded, no attempt was made to use them, and there was no evidence that the guns had been intended for use against law enforcement officers, it is clearly improbable that the guns were connected to his drug trafficking offense. For purposes of the adjustment, "it is not necessary for possession of the weapon . . . to be sufficiently connected with the crime to warrant prosecution as an independent firearm offense." And it is not material that the guns were not loaded; 2D1.1(b)(1) is an added punishment for drug offenders who heighten the danger of drug trafficking by possessing a dangerous weapon, and the mere presence of a gun, loaded or not, can escalate the danger. See. Finally, it does not matter whether Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot actually used or intended to use the guns in his drug-trafficking offense; the pertinent fact is that "they could have been so used." (emphasis added). Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's sentence must therefore be affirmed.

III. CONCLUSION

Based on the foregoing, this circuit affirm Brignoni-Ponce Jacquinot's conviction and sentence.

AFFIRMED

Concur  by:  Judge Robert M. Parker

Concur

Judge Robert M. Parker, Circuit Judge, specially concurring.

The  absurdity of our jurisprudence, as it relates to the United States/Mexican Border,  is well illustrated by Judge Wiener's dissent in  .  In addition to the factual scenarios    he lists in his dissent that we have judicially blessed, we can now  add spending five seconds at a Stop sign prior to turning left, and  driving 20 mph through a school zone when the blinking light was  off.

The  stop was seventy-five miles from the United States/Mexican Border, well beyond our  artificial fifty mile limit. There is no evidence that the large white Ford pickup truck had crossed the United States/Mexican Border. The articulated reason of lead  car/following car had been dispelled, a fact which decreases the  relevance that at some point (undisclosed for security purposes)  within Big Bend National Park two vehicles passed a sensor. The officers also  mentioned the highly suspicious slowing within the speed limit as  the defendants were being followed and the Kansas license plate on  the large white Ford pickup truck. This last point had particular significance for one of  the officers, since at one point in his career he made a case  involving a Kansas destination.

ROBERT M. PARKER finds no rational or principled basis upon which to conclude that either reasonable suspicion or probable cause existed that would justify the stop in this case. Judge Robert M. Parker chooses to specially concur because Judge Robert M. Parker recognizes that at this point in time, in this circuit, a dissent would be an exercise in futility. Judge Robert M. Parker remains hopeful that at some point in time, the hysteria regarding the ill-fated war on drugs and its impact on the will subside and the rule of reason will again prevail.

E nd of Document

