Yusif Ahmed Rufied is a defendant.

PROBABLE CAUSE FINDING

I. Facts

Yusif Ahmed Rufied ("Yusif Ahmed Rufied") was charged by criminal complaint on May 26, 2006, with unlawfully transporting sixty (60) illegal aliens by means of a motor vehicle within the Southern District of Texas in knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that said aliens had come to, entered, or remained in the United States in violation of law, and transported or moved said aliens within the United States by means of a motor vehicle or otherwise in violation of. On June 2, 2006, the Southern District of Texas held a preliminary examination hearing to determine whether there was probable cause to detain Yusif Ahmed Rufied.

At the preliminary examination hearing, the government presented Immigration and Customs Enforcement ("ICE") Agent Bruce Henderson ("Agent Henderson") as its sole witness. Bruce Henderson testified that on May 24, 2006, he was working with Joe Silva when they were called to the Border Patrol check point on Highway 59. Bruce Henderson stated that Joe Silva received a duty call from Flores stating that sixty (60) undocumented aliens were found in a tractor trailer. Bruce Henderson testified that he arrived at the Border Patrol check point on Highway 59 with Joe Silva at approximately 10:45 a.m. Bruce Henderson stated that when he arrived at the Border Patrol check point on Highway 59 he saw the tractor trailer and was introduced to some of the undocumented aliens found in the trailer. Bruce Henderson stated that there were fifty-nine (59) aliens present at the Border Patrol check point on Highway 59 and one (1) alien in the hospital due to taking an improper medication. Bruce Henderson testified that Border Patrol Agents advised him that the tractor trailer arrived at the Border Patrol check point on Highway 59 at approximately 6:45 a.m. and during a secondary inspection sixty (60) aliens were found in the rear of the trailer.

Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Yusif Ahmed Rufied was in the cab of the tractor trailer with Martin Adaboh ("Codefendant"). Agent Bruce Henderson identified Yusif Ahmed Rufied as the individual in the Southern District of Texas wearing an orange jumpsuit. Agent Bruce Henderson stated that Yusif Ahmed Rufied and Martin Adaboh are both from Ghana, Africa and both live in Quebec, Montreal, Canada. Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Martin Adaboh and Yusif Ahmed Rufied were arrested and read their rights. Agent Bruce Henderson stated that he attempted to speak with Martin Adaboh first, but was unable to speak with Martin Adaboh because Martin Adaboh requested an attorney. Agent Bruce Henderson testified that he spoke with Yusif Ahmed Rufied, and Yusif Ahmed Rufied claimed that he was a driver in training, that he never drove the tractor trailer, and that he was not receiving payment for transporting aliens.

Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Yusif Ahmed Rufied said he stayed at the Monterrey Inn in Laredo, Texas on the night of May 23, 2006, and that Martin Adaboh stayed in a room at the Monterrey Inn while Yusif Ahmed Rufied slept in the tractor from Midnight to 6:00 a.m. Agent Bruce Henderson testified that according to Yusif Ahmed Rufied, Martin Adaboh met a woman by the name of Claudia in the hallway of the Monterrey Inn.

Agent Bruce Henderson spoke with material witnesses that claimed to be loaded into the trailer at 5:30 a.m. on May 24, 2006, during the period Yusif Ahmed Rufied claims he was sleeping in the tractor.

Agent Bruce Henderson testified that the aliens were loaded at Diesel Impact 2000 off of Highway 359. Agent Bruce Henderson described the terrain leading into Diesel Impact 2000 as a rough caliche road, with a steep grade, and deep indentations. Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Yusif Ahmed Rufied claimed the tractor stopped on the side of the highway and that Martin Adaboh told Yusif Ahmed Rufied he was checking the tires.

Agent Bruce Henderson stated that Martin Adaboh later changed his mind about speaking with ICE agents and was read his rights and interviewed on May 24, 2006. Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Martin Adaboh claimed that while staying at the Monterrey Inn, Martin Adaboh was approached to smuggle aliens by a woman named Claudia. Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Martin Adaboh stated that on the morning of May 24, 2006, Claudia, Martin Adaboh, and Yusif Ahmed Rufied went to Diesel Impact 2000, and all were present at the rear of the trailer when the aliens were loaded. Agent Bruce Henderson stated that once the aliens were loaded, a seal was placed on the door of the trailer.

Agent Bruce Henderson testified that Martin Adaboh described the area surrounding Diesel Impact 2000 and could show Bruce Henderson where it was located. Bruce Henderson stated that Martin Adaboh did not state the exact amount of the payment he was going to receive for transporting the aliens and never claimed that he was going to pay Yusif Ahmed Rufied. Bruce Henderson stated that Martin Adaboh stated that he started with $10,000, gave $3000 to his wife, gave Yusif Ahmed Rufied $1000, and Martin Adaboh was left with $7,000 found at the time he was arrested.

Bruce Henderson testified that Yusif Ahmed Rufied claimed that they were going to McAllen, Texas; Martin Adaboh claimed that they were going to San Antonio, Texas; and the trucking dispatcher stated that Yusif Ahmed Rufied and Martin Adaboh were to pick up a load in Laredo, Texas and return to Canada. Bruce Henderson testified that Martin Adaboh stated that Yusif Ahmed Rufied was awake in the front seat when they went to Diesel Impact 2000. Bruce Henderson also stated that there was no load in the trailer, except for the aliens, when Yusif Ahmed Rufied was stopped at the Border Patrol check point on Highway 59. Bruce Henderson testified that a person does not travel on Highway 59 to get to San Antonio or McAllen.

Defense counsel cross-examined Bruce Henderson regarding the investigation.  Bruce Henderson stated that although there were only two seats in the cab, Claudia may have sat in the bunk. Bruce Henderson reiterated that Martin Adaboh's statement was taken five hours after Yusif Ahmed Rufied's statement was taken, and that at the time of arriving at the scene only Yusif Ahmed Rufied and not Martin Adaboh spoke to agents. Bruce Henderson also reiterated that Yusif Ahmed Rufied stated that Martin Adaboh spoke with a lady by the name of Claudia and that Yusif Ahmed Rufied stated that he slept in the truck. Bruce Henderson testified that one material witness identified Martin Adaboh as the driver and the person that was present at the rear of the trailer while the trailer was being loaded with aliens. However, Bruce Henderson also stated that the other material witnesses identified a person with black skin color as the person loading the trailer. Bruce Henderson testified that there were no justifiable facts that the $1700 found in Yusif Ahmed Rufied's possession was from this incident. Bruce Henderson reiterated that Martin Adaboh never mentioned that Yusif Ahmed Rufied was getting paid. Bruce Henderson reiterated that the primary agent on the scene informed Bruce Henderson that Yusif Ahmed Rufied was in the passenger seat of the truck. Other than the cross-examination, Yusif Ahmed Rufied did not present any additional testimony as to probable cause.

II. Analysis

Preliminary examination hearings afford magistrates an opportunity to determine whether there is probable cause to detain a defendant. I Fed. Prac. & Proc. Crim.3d ยง 86 (R 5.1). There is a two-part test to determine whether probable cause exists: belief that an offense has been committed; and belief that the defendant committed it. See. The probable cause threshold is low. A magistrate may find probable cause if the government shows "evidence sufficient to cause a person of ordinary prudence and caution to conscientiously entertain a reasonable belief of the accused's guilt." 1 Fed. Prac. & Proc. Crim.3d ยง 86 n.3 ( ) (internal quotations and citations omitted).

Additionally, according to, "the finding of probable cause may be based upon hearsay evidence in whole or in part." (emphasis added). Based on the testimony, the government has met its burden. The government presented evidence that an offense was committed by showing that sixty (60) undocumented aliens were found in a tractor trailer Yusif Ahmed Rufied was riding in. The government presented testimony from Bruce Henderson showing that a person of ordinary prudence and caution could conscientiously entertain a reasonable belief of the accused's guilt; specifically, that Yusif Ahmed Rufied was riding in the passenger seat of the tractor trailer and Yusif Ahmed Rufied helped load undocumented aliens into the trailer.

III.  Finding

Based  on the evidence presented, THE Southern District of Texas FINDS THAT THERE IS PROBABLE CAUSE to hold Yusif Ahmed Rufied to answer in Southern District of Texas, in  accordance with .

DONE  at Laredo, Texas ,  this 7th day of June, 2006.

Adriana Arce Flores

United States Magistrate Judge

End  of Document

