In addition to the fact that the two vehicles were not recognizable to United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino as vehicles that frequently travel Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and the fact that the small passenger-style vehicle and "non-work" truck were atypical of the area in general, after running the registration of the vehicles, United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino learned that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan was a rental vehicle registered to Hertz Rental Car Company and the black Dodge pickup truck was registered to Corinth, Texas. "A vehicle's registration may, under some circumstances, add to reasonable suspicion." (noting that the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has previously "held that the fact that a car was registered in San Angelo, yet was taking an indirect route to San Angelo which was less-heavily patrolled, added to reasonable suspicion," but finding no reasonable suspicion in the present case because "the black Dodge pickup truck was neither registered to a faraway place, nor was it taking some sort of suspicious, indirect route" as it was registered to a location in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and was "traveling due east on Interstate 20); see also (finding that after the agent determined "RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan was not registered locally," that since "the ranch road was rarely used by any non-ranch vehicles and . . . the agent knew the vehicles connected with the local ranches by sight. . . . he could have found it suspicious that a vehicle from another part of Texas, with no connection to the local ranches, was using that particular road."); cf. (because the defendant had RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan registered to Dallas, Texas and was heading north on Interstate 35, "a well-traveled interstate highway," directly towards Dallas, Texas, distinguishing the case from Arvizu, where "it was reasonable for the agent to infer from his observations, his registration check, and his experience that the defendant had set out . . . along a little-traveled route used by smugglers to avoid the checkpoint"). RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan and the black Dodge pickup truck with out-of-town registrations, one of which was a rental vehicle, understandably raised United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino's suspicions.