The second, third, fourth, and seventh aforementioned factors—the characteristics of the particular area, the usual traffic patterns of Farm-to-Market Road 2050, information regarding recent illegal trafficking in aliens or narcotics in the area near Corinth, Texas and Dallas, Texas, and the particular aspects or characteristics of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan and the black Dodge pickup truck—all contribute to a finding of reasonable suspicion in the instant case. 21 Farm-to-Market Road 2050 consists solely of ranches and a wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, so "there's no . . . reason" for RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan or the black Dodge pickup truck to be on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "unless you own a ranch out there . . . or you work for an oil company, inspecting the oil mills." 22 See (considering in part "that there was no development other than ranches within twenty miles of the intersection of Highway 16 and U.S. Highway 59" in finding that there was reasonable suspicion to make the stop, and distinguishing the case from others where no reasonable suspicion was found because of "the presence of a nearby national park"). The majority of vehicles traveling "southbound and northbound on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 are therefore . . . oilfield trucks, tankers, utility trucks, Ford F-150s, and Ford F-250s . . . ." There are "hardly . . . any passenger vehicles out there," because of the possibility of "losing a tire or a bumper" on the ranch roads near Farm-to-Market Road 2050. The passenger cars that are on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 generally belong either to the owners of the various ranches or to the employees of the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and are largely recognizable to United States Border Patrol agents. Those vehicles either pass through the Hebbronville Checkpoint before turning down Farm-to-Market Road 2050, display a wind farm sticker on the rear of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan or the black Dodge pickup truck, or are among the vehicles the agents know "because they drive every single day to work." See (noting that "United States Border Patrol agents may reasonably be familiar with most of the ordinary traffic" in a "sparsely populated" area near Corinth, Texas and Dallas, Texas). Notably, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan and the black Dodge pickup truck, a "non-work" truck and a rental passenger vehicle, were neither recognizable by the United States Border Patrol agents nor the typical vehicles seen on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. See (per curiam) ("An agent's inability to recognize RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan or the black Dodge pickup truck on a road that is generally only used by local residents may also indicate reasonable suspicion . . . ."); ("United States Court" has in the past given weight to an agent's observation that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan and the black Dodge pickup truck's appearance was atypical of vehicles in the particular area in question.)