A few minutes after the stop, Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office arrived on the scene.  Under questioning, Federico Saldana told the officers he lived in Laredo and  was driving the scissor lift to Dallas for repairs as a favor to Daniel Martin Huerta. Federico Saldana stated he was being paid $300 for the job. Federico Saldana did not know the exact address in Dallas where he was to take the trailer but claimed the plan was for him to call Daniel Martin Huerta upon arrival in Dallas for the precise address. Approximately six minutes after the stop, Williamson County Sheriff's Office informed Federico Saldana he was going to give him a warning based on the traffic violations and indicated he would need the registration information for the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer to complete the paperwork. Id. at 13:06:10-45. Federico Saldana stated he had identifying information for Daniel A. Huerta in the 2008 Chevrolet truck, and Federico Saldana gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office consent to retrieve this information from inside the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Id. at 13:06:42. Over the next few minutes, Williamson County Sheriff's Office continued to gather information from Federico Saldana while Williamson County Sheriff's Office looked for the registration documents in the car. Williamson County Sheriff's Office inquired about Federico Saldana's criminal history, and Federico Saldana confirmed he had been arrested multiple times, including for the smuggling of illegal aliens and drugs. The drug smuggling arrest occurred at a checkpoint in Laredo where Federico Saldana was found to have been transporting drugs in his 18-wheeler. In the meantime, Williamson County Sheriff's Office had been unable to find the registration documents and again asked Federico Saldana where they were. Id. at 13:11:58. Federico Saldana again directed Williamson County Sheriff's Office to the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office consent to retrieve those documents. Id.