KING, Chief Judge:

On  September 18, 2001, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero (Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero)  pled guilty without a plea agreement to three counts of knowingly  and recklessly transporting an undocumented alien for purposes of  financial gain in violation of .  On January 2, 2002, the United States sentenced Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero to forty-eight months of  imprisonment on each count (to run concurrently). To arrive at the guideline sentencing range, the United States enhanced Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's sentence under for reckless endangerment during the alien smuggling and under for the death of an alien resulting from the smuggling.

Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero appeals both enhancements. On appeal, the discrete issues before the United States are thus whether the United States erred in enhancing Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's base offense level under and under . We find no error.

FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY

On June 4, 2001, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero approached a group of nine undocumented aliens in San Luis, Potosi, Mexico, and informed them that he was their guide into the United States (to San Antonio). After taking a bus to Nuevo Laredo and purchasing a medium bottle of water and two cans of food each, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero, Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez, Jaime Gomez-Arroyo, and seven other undocumented aliens took canoes across the Rio Grande River. They entered the United States at approximately 6:00 a.m. on July 5, 2001. Once here, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero walked the group through South Texas from early morning until midnight at intervals of four-to-five hours with twenty-minute rest periods in between the intervals. The following day, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero commenced the walking ritual at approximately 7:00 a.m. At approximately 11:00 a.m., Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez, a member of the group, became too ill to continue the South Texas Trek with the group. Her uncle, Jaime Gomez-Arroyo, remained behind with her while the other members of the group continued the South Texas Journey. At some point that afternoon, Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez fell asleep and stopped breathing. Jaime Gomez-Arroyo sought help from a nearby ranch hand.

In the late afternoon on June 6, 2001, border patrol agents from the Laredo South Station were notified by the ranch hand that an undocumented female alien was in apparent distress at the La Moca Ranch. When agents and emergency technicians arrived at the ranch, they found the body of Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez. As indicated by the PSR, the autopsy found the sole cause of her death to be "probable heat stroke."

The border patrol agents met with Jaime Gomez-Arroyo. In a search of the surrounding area, they found the other members of the group, which consisted of seven additional undocumented aliens and Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero. Two of the aliens in the group needed medical attention, and, according to the probation officer at sentencing, were in the hospital for two weeks recovering from their injuries.

In a sworn statement to a border patrol agent, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero stated that he was the only guide for the group, that he was guiding the group to San Antonio for financial gain ($400 per alien), and that he had transported aliens through South Texas Trek on two prior occasions.

The United States enhanced Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's base offense level for recklessly creating a substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury to another person while transporting unlawful aliens into the United States from a base offense level of fifteen to a base offense level of eighteen. It found that while Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero did not "create" the sun and South Texas, the trafficking of illegal aliens across South Texas Trek to avoid detection requires moving the aliens in "odd ways for the very purpose of committing this crime," and that "taking these risks" increases the successfulness of the offense and ultimately creates "a situation just asking for a disaster." The United States then enhanced Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's base offense level eight levels for the death of Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez.

STANDARD OF REVIEW

This court reviews the application of the sentencing guidelines de novo and reviews the United States' findings of fact for clear error. See .  Further, this court will uphold a sentence unless it was imposed in violation of law or as a result of an incorrect application of the sentencing guidelines or it is outside the range of the applicable guideline and is unreasonable. See .

RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT AND DEATH ENHANCEMENTS

1.

Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero maintains that the United States erred in enhancing

his sentence under the reckless endangerment enhancement because (1) Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero did not engage in any conduct specifically mentioned in the commentary to the alien smuggling guideline, (2) Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero did not engage in conduct similar to the examples of "reckless conduct" listed in the applicable commentary to the alien smuggling guideline, and (3) even if leading members of the group, on foot, through the South Texas Trek in June is reckless conduct similar to that listed in the guideline commentary, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero did not make the aliens go on the journey with him and thus did not "create a substantial risk" within the meaning of the guideline. As a final argument, on the day United States heard oral argument in this case, counsel for Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero submitted to United States a Rule 28(j) letter arguing that Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero did not possess the requisite subjective intent for the enhancement. (1) "Reckless Conduct" found in the Guideline section for Smuggling, Transporting, or Harboring Illegal Aliens, provides for an enhancement of the base offense level "if the offense involved intentionally or recklessly creating a substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury to another person." (2001). Application Note 6 to the commentary to the guideline provides that

Reckless conduct to which the adjustment from subsection (b)(5) applies includes a wide variety of conduct (e.g., transporting persons in the trunk or engine compartment of a motor vehicle, carrying substantially more passengers than the rated capacity of a motor vehicle or vessel, or harboring persons in a crowded, dangerous, or inhumane condition . . . .)

Id. at cmt. 6.

This court recently addressed. In, United States affirmed the district court's application of the reckless endangerment enhancement where the defendant pled guilty to transporting undocumented aliens in his extended cab pickup truck for financial gain. There, seven aliens were found riding in the cab of the truck and four aliens were found lying down in the bed of a pickup truck. This conduct was found to constitute "reckless conduct" for purposes of the enhancement even though it was not specified in the commentary to the guideline. Thus, while Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero is correct that the commentary does not expressly state that guiding a group of aliens through South Texas Trek in June is "reckless conduct" to which the adjustment applies, this argument was squarely rejected by United States in Cuyler. Id.

Further supporting a finding that the enhancement applies to the conduct at issue is the language of the commentary itself. The commentary expressly states that the adjustment applies to "a wide variety of conduct." The listed examples of "reckless conduct" in the commentary include situations that, for one reason or another, pose inherently dangerous risks to the aliens being transported. While, as with Cuyler, most of the cases discuss in the context of risky conduct related to vehicular transportation of illegal aliens, these cases in no way restrict "reckless conduct" to conduct related to vehicular transportation. Further, while this court has not had the opportunity to address the application of to conduct similar to that now before the United States, the Ninth Circuit recently upheld the application of to a factual scenario similar to that before the United States. See. The Defendants in Rodriguez case were guides employed by alien smugglers to transport, for financial gain, illegal aliens into the United States via the mountains between Mexico and San Diego. The group of aliens was not well-informed regarding the length of the journey or the weather conditions they would face during the journey. Id. They lacked the proper food supplies and, for the most part, lacked insulated clothing. Id. An unexpected snowstorm made weather conditions unbearable for the group. Id. The Defendants in Rodriguez case ultimately used an emergency call box to request emergency assistance and remained at the scene for authorities. Id. The court of appeals upheld the United States's application of, stating that

We conclude that encompasses Defendants in Rodriguez case' conduct of assisting alien smugglers. The mountains rise to an elevation of over 4,000 feet and contain rugged terrain that is riddled with canyons, streams, and other obstacles. The temperature can drop to as low as 36 degrees at night, and there is the potential for rain during that time of year. In addition to possible severe weather, the government correctly pointed out the other dangers of such a journey: lack of food and water, the potential for injury, and the risk of water-borne parasites or disease.

In this factually similar case, we too are persuaded to extend to the conduct at issue. We look at the entire picture. Here, the PSR indicates that the temperature on June 5, 2001 reached 100 degrees and the temperature on June 6, 2001 reached 105 degrees. Each of the aliens had only one bottle of water (which was depleted six hours after the journey began) and two cans of food, and several aliens told border patrol agents that they would have bought more water and food had Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero accurately advised them of the length of the journey. The aliens requested, and were denied, longer rest periods. The fact that one member of the group, Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez, died from "probable heat stroke" and two others required rather extensive hospitalization at Laredo underscores the dangerous nature of the South Texas Trek. We agree with United States that the conduct is covered by (1) Causation.

Cuyler is also instructive to counter Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's argument that the enhancement is improper here because Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero did not cause or create the substantial risk at issue. The United States correctly concluded that the United States guideline use of the phrase "creating a substantial risk" focuses on whether the chosen manner of traveling is "a very dangerous way to travel." In Cuyler, the offense conduct at issue - transporting unrestrained aliens in the bed of a pickup truck - was central to the United States inquiry. As to this conduct, the United States questioned whether this type of offense conduct creates a substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury. In so doing, it stated that,

The issue is whether this particular offense "intentionally or recklessly created a substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury to another person." The defendant transported illegal aliens for money, knowing that the persons involved were illegal aliens. Aliens who are unrestrained easily can be thrown from the bed of a pickup truck in the event of an accident or other driving maneuver of the sort that is unavoidable in highway driving. The offense in this appeal meets the requirements of.

As found by the United States, when Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero "stepped up to the plate and said I will guide you through South Texas Trek," he placed these individuals in a substantially risky situation within the meaning of the United States. Although Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero had no control over the conditions, he was responsible and was to receive compensation for guiding these individuals and thus "created" the substantial risk within the meaning of the United States in the same way the Defendants in Rodriguez case in Cuyler were responsible for "creating" the substantial risk there.

As stated, the guideline itself uses the phrase "creating a substantial risk." (2001) (emphasis added). However, Congress, through the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-208, 110 Stat. 566 ("IIRIRA"), directed the Sentencing Commission to allow for the imposition of "an appropriate sentencing enhancement on a defendant who, in the course of committing an alien smuggling offense . . . engages in conduct that consciously or recklessly places another in serious danger of death or serious bodily injury." House Conference Report No. 104-863, at 580 (1996). A comparison of the House Conference Report with the final version of demonstrates that United States to require a less stringent causal nexus between the defendant's actions and the substantial risk facing the aliens than that proposed by Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero. United States can glean from the House Conference Report that the defendant does not have to manufacture the dangerous condition. Rather, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero engaged in conduct that placed the aliens in substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury for enhancement purposes when he transported aliens through South Texas Trek in the heat of the summer with inadequate water and food.

Finally, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero argues that the enhancement under is erroneous because he did not possess the requisite subjective intent. This argument was not raised until oral argument in United States, and will not be addressed.

The district court did not clearly err in enhancing Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's sentence under.

2.

Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero contends that the district court erred in enhancing his base offense level eight levels for the death of Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez because he neither intended to cause her death nor caused her death within the meaning of United States. The district court rejected Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's arguments, stating that it "had not the slightest doubt at all that trudging through the hot South Texas desert in June was at least a cause of her death." It further found that Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero recklessly created a substantial risk of death. I think Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez died as a cause of the situation, that he led and shepherded them through the South Texas and I don't have the slightest doubt about that by any standard of evidence . . . I don't think there's any doubt at all that this trek through the South Texas contributed to her death.

provides that, "if any person died or sustained bodily injury, increase the offense level according to the seriousness of the injury." (2001). It then prescribes an eight-level increase in the base offense level for the death of an individual.

(1) Intent

While this court has not addressed whether intent is required for an enhancement under, case law from the Ninth Circuit is again instructional. In Herrera, the court of appeals addressed. The Herrera court found that no intent requirement is necessary for an enhancement under this subsection, stating that,

Section (b)(5), immediately preceding § (b)(6), specifies that intent or recklessness is required to hold a defendant responsible for creating the risk of death. Section (b)(6)(4) states simply that if death results, an increase is required. The failure to specify that intent is required, immediately following a section that specifies intent, is a clear indication that no intent is necessary for an increase under § (b)(6).

Id. (emphasis in original). The Herrera court's analysis of intent is persuasive. Plainly, Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero does not have to intend the death of Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez for the enhancement to apply because the guideline does not require it.

(2) Causation

Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero also avers that the enhancement was nevertheless improper because the causal connection between the offense conduct and the death of Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez is weak. In a footnote, the Herrera court states that "we assume . . . that for § (b)(6) to apply, the relevant death or injury must be causally connected to dangerous conditions covered by § (b)(5) created by the unlawful conduct . . . ." Id. at n.1; see also (enhancing the base offense level eight levels only "because Appellants were also subject to § (b)(5) for recklessly creating the substantial risk"). We need not decide whether a causal link between the substantially risky conduct (addressed under § (b)(5)) and the death of an individual (addressed under § (b)(6)) must exist for an enhancement under § (b)(6). Here, the conduct creating a substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury (leading Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero, Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez, Jaime Gomez-Arroyo, and seven other undocumented aliens through the South Texas Trek in the middle of summer without adequate food, water, and rest periods) and the death of Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez are causally yoked such that adopting Herrera's pronouncement in footnote 1 is unnecessary. The autopsy report, the weather conditions, the lack of water and food, the manner of death, and the need for two other members of the group, namely Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero, Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez, Jaime Gomez-Arroyo, and seven other undocumented aliens, to also receive rather extensive medical treatment as a result of the extreme heat, all support the United States finding that Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez died from conditions encountered during the South Texas Journey.

CONCLUSION

The United States did not err in enhancing Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero's sentence under and under. The sentence is AFFIRMED.

End of Document

1. He also imposed a three-year term of supervised release for each count (to run concurrently) and imposed a special assessment fee of $300. No fine was imposed.

2. Members of the group told agents that Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero represented to them that the length of the South Texas Journey through South Texas would be only one day and that had they been aware of the actual length of the South Texas Journey, they would have purchased adequate provisions for themselves in Nuevo Laredo. Although Inocencio Garcia-Guerrero initially told agents that he represented to the aliens that the journey would be three days, in his appellate brief, he admits representing the length of the South Texas Journey to be one full day through South Texas.

3. As reflected in the record, the autopsy report describes Alma Delia Simon-Fernandez as a 142-pound, normally developed and adequately nourished adult female.

4. The record reflects that these two aliens were both adult males found by the emergency personnel to be "severely dehydrated," showing "acute signs of heat stroke," and requiring "rapid cooling measures." Both were immediately transported to a hospital in Laredo.

5   provides for an increase in the base offense level of two levels,  but states that "if the resulting offense level is less than  level eighteen, increase to level 18." (2001).  Since a two-level enhancement would have resulted in a base offense  level of seventeen, the United States increased the base offense  level to the minimum level of eighteen as prescribed by the  United States.

6    "Commentary in the United States Guidelines Manual that interprets or  explains a United States guideline is authoritative unless it violates the  Constitution or a federal statute, or is inconsistent with, or a  plainly erroneous reading of, that United States guideline." .

