Alfredo Ortega-Chavez is a defendant. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez is an appellant.

GARWOOD, Circuit Judge:

Alfredo Ortega-Chavez appeals his conviction of conspiracy to bring or attempt to bring undocumented aliens into the United States, and aiding and abetting an attempt to bring undocumented aliens into the United States. Finding no merit in any of his claims, we affirm.

Substantial evidence was presented at Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial that on November 21, 1980, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez and Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez left the United States and entered Mexico at Nuevo Laredo. That same day, Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez applied for and received a permit to return to the United States with certain described merchandise. From Nuevo Laredo he and Alfredo Ortega-Chavez proceeded to Sabinas Hidalgo, Mexico. The next day, November 22, these two met with Alejandro Gonzalez Delgado and five undocumented aliens at a restaurant in Sabinas Hidalgo. From the restaurant, all eight took the bus to Nuevo Laredo. The five undocumented aliens then took the taxi from the Nuevo Laredo bus terminal to a point close to the bridge leading into the United States. Appellant Alfredo Ortega-Chavez, Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez, and Alejandro Gonzalez Delgado arrived at the bridge leading into the United States in the van used for smuggling. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez instructed the five aliens to get into a hidden compartment in the van used for smuggling and to remain silent. The van used for smuggling was driven by Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez. Approximately halfway across the bridge leading into the United States, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez got out of the van used for smuggling.

A U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer at the bridge leading into the United States, while inspecting the van used for smuggling's merchandise for compliance with the entry permit, noticed that the rear wall of the van used for smuggling on the inside appeared to be less deep than would be suggested by looking at the outside of the van used for smuggling. The van used for smuggling was inspected, the hidden compartment discovered, and Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez, Alejandro Gonzalez Delgado, and the five undocumented aliens were placed under arrest. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was arrested later. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was charged with conspiracy to bring or to attempt to bring undocumented aliens into the United States and five counts of aiding and abetting Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's attempt to bring illegal aliens into the United States. The U.S. Court returned a verdict of guilty as to each offense.

On appeal, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez raises several claims of prejudicial error not asserted below. It is well-established that the failure to timely and properly raise these contentions before the district court, either through objection, motion for mistrial, or other appropriate manner, precludes us from reviewing them unless they constitute plain error under. See (plain error applies to failure to object to evidence introduced at trial); (plain error applies to failure to object to waiver of counsel hearing conducted in presence of jury venire); (plain error applies to failure to object to inculpatory answer elicited during cross-examination); (plain error applies to failure to object to alleged prosecutorial misconduct at trial). Plain errors are "limited to those harmful ones that were so rank that they should have been apparent to Judge Kazen without objection, or that strike at the fundamental fairness, honesty, or public reputation of the district court." (footnote omitted).

Alfredo Ortega-Chavez claims the district court erroneously permitted the U.S. Government Attorney to call two unannounced rebuttal witnesses, in contravention of. When its witnesses were sworn prior to Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial, the U.S. Government Attorney volunteered that one of them might be called "as a rebuttal." At Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez did not testify and presented only one witness, Graciela Castaneda, whose sole testimony was that she and her husband had brunch with Alfredo Ortega-Chavez on November 22, 1980, at their home in San Antonio, Texas. Following Graciela Castaneda's testimony, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial was recessed for the day. The next morning, at a conference prior to the jury in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial being brought in, U.S. Government Attorney informed Judge Kazen and Ms. Salinas' law firm that he "just found this out yesterday that I did have some rebuttal witnesses" and that he would call Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's father and Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's mother, neither of whom were among those previously sworn, to testify that Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was in Sabinas Hidalgo on November 21 and 22, and thus rebut the alibi given by Graciela Castaneda. Ms. Salinas' law firm then observed that at the beginning of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial the U.S. Government Attorney "indicated that there would be just the possibility of maybe one rebuttal witness; which was" an individual other than either of Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's parents. However, no objection or motion was then or thereafter made respecting the testimony of these witnesses. The jury in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial was then brought in, and Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's father and Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's mother testified, Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's father placing Alfredo Ortega-Chavez in Sabinas Hidalgo on November 22, 1980, and Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's mother recalling having seen Alfredo Ortega-Chavez there on the evening of November 21, 1980.

Allowing these witnesses to testify was not plain error. See .  requires the U.S. Government Attorney to provide Alfredo Ortega-Chavez written notice of  "the witnesses upon whom the U.S. Government Attorney intends to rely to  establish Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's presence at the scene of the alleged  offense and any other witnesses to be relied on to rebut testimony  of any of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's alibi witnesses." This requirement,  however, is only a reciprocal obligation triggered by the  U.S. Government Attorney's written demand for alibi information, under ,  of the written notice of alibi defense. . See .  Since the U.S. Government Attorney made no written demand for alibi information under ,  it was under no duty to provide Alfredo Ortega-Chavez with a list of  rebuttal witnesses. .

Alfredo Ortega-Chavez further argues that these U.S. Government Attorney rebuttal witnesses, who were present in the district court during previous testimony, were allowed to testify despite a sequestration order made pursuant to. Plain error is not established. While sequestration is mandatory, this district court has held that the district court has discretion to allow the testimony of a witness who has violated the Rule and that a U.S. Government Attorney must demonstrate an abuse of discretion and "sufficient prejudice" to warrant reversal on account of such testimony. , ; (en banc), modified on other grounds, (5th Cir.) (en banc), ; . Alfredo Ortega-Chavez is unable to demonstrate either an abuse of discretion or sufficient prejudice from the testimony of the two rebuttal witnesses. Their testimony merely confirmed that of four previous witnesses, that Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was in Sabinas Hidalgo on November 22, 1980. Moreover, the U.S. Government Attorney had no way of knowing that these rebuttal witnesses would be necessary until it heard the testimony of Graciela Castaneda that Alfredo Ortega-Chavez had been in San Antonio, Texas on the day in question.

Ortega-Chavez also objects to the manner in which a juror was questioned by both Judge Kazen and the U.S. Government Attorney in regard to her friendship with Defense counsel, Ms. Salinas' law firm. During the voir dire of the jury panel, Judge Kazen inquired if anyone on the panel was a close personal friend of Ms. Salinas' law firm or "anything of that sort." There was no response from any panel member or from Ms. Salinas' law firm. After the jury had been selected but prior to the commencement of any other proceedings in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial, it was revealed that one of the jurors knew Ms. Salinas' law firm. Judge Kazen thereupon questioned the juror, Mrs. Guerrero, out of the presence of the other jury members, as to her ability to be impartial. During this conference, the U.S. Government Attorney was allowed to ask the juror whether her friendship with another female lawyer in Laredo would unfairly affect her view of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial. Defense counsel made no objections. In fact, Defense counsel never in any way even intimated the slightest displeasure with this proceeding or with the juror. The juror stated twice that she could be "fair and impartial."

The trial judge handled this case commendably. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's suggestion on appeal that the in camera hearing in some way operated "to magnify the wrong," far from establishing plain error, is unsupported by a single shred of evidence. The decision to hold such a hearing is within the discretion of Judge Kazen. This district court has recognized Judge Kazen's responsibility under to inquire into a juror's ability to remain impartial. The decision to remove a juror for impartiality is within the sound discretion of Judge Kazen. Judge Kazen conducted an inquiry that was both brief and sensitive to the concerns of both parties, the U.S. Government Attorney and Alfredo Ortega-Chavez. He then gave Ms. Salinas' law firm for both parties, the U.S. Government Attorney and Alfredo Ortega-Chavez, an opportunity to question Mrs. Guerrero. Ms. Salinas' law firm declined this invitation. Mrs. Guerrero indicated that she could be "fair and impartial to both sides," the U.S. Government Attorney and Alfredo Ortega-Chavez. After repeated assurances from Mrs. Guerrero that she could remain nonpartisan, Judge Kazen determined that she was not prejudiced by her relationship with Ms. Salinas' law firm, Defense counsel for Alfredo Ortega-Chavez. That determination was not an abuse of discretion. See , .

The remainder of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's claims are entirely without merit and do not warrant extended discussion. The allegation that the U.S. Government Attorney made unspecified prejudicial comments in opening and closing arguments is raised for the first time on appeal and is unsupported by the court record. Ms. Salinas' law firm's objection to the United States Government's reference to a photo layout which included Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was cured by Judge Kazen's prompt instruction and, moreover, all of the United States Government's witnesses later identified Alfredo Ortega-Chavez by pointing to him in the district court. Equally thorough limiting instructions were given when the United States Government adduced evidence of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's recent previous ventures into Mexico to smuggle undocumented aliens into the United States, and these instructions were repeated in Judge Kazen's final charge to the jury in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial.

While Alfredo Ortega-Chavez claims that Judge Kazen wrongly failed to inquire into his written notice of alibi defense regarding a twelve-person jury, the court record neither contains nor suggests the existence of any such document (or of any other waiver of a twelve-person jury). Further, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was tried before and convicted by a panel of twelve jurors in the district court, which is the district court.

The evidence was, to say the least, amply sufficient to sustain Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's conviction. While the testimony of the accomplice, Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez, revealed several inconsistencies with his prior deposition statements, such testimony was certainly not incredible as a matter of law. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's challenge goes to credibility and weight, not competency. Issues of credibility, the weight of the evidence, and conflicts in evidence are matters for the district court. The testimony of the other U.S. Government Attorney witnesses not only corroborated Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's testimony, but also, standing alone, more than sufficient to support the guilty verdict in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial.

Lastly, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez claims that Judge Kazen "failed to maintain the appearance of impartiality." This contention is wholly frivolous. We have examined the entire court record and it is plain that the able Judge Kazen conducted all the proceedings not only fairly, conscientiously, and competently but in a manner that was in all respects fully considerate, courteous, evenhanded, and impartial. Ms. Salinas' law firm is obliged to be fearless and resolute in resisting any judicial partiality, actual or apparent; equally, however, it is Ms. Salinas' law firm's duty to eschew utterly baseless charges of partiality or similar misconduct.

The evidence against Alfredo Ortega-Chavez is strong. He was fairly tried and convicted in the district court. There being no reversible error, the judgment is affirmed.

AFFIRMED.

End of Document

1   provides:

"(b)  Plain error. Plain errors or defects affecting substantial rights  may be noticed although they were not brought to the attention of  the district court."

2  provides:

"(a)  Notice by Defendant. Upon written demand for alibi information of the U.S. Government Attorney stating the time, date, and place at which the alleged  offense was committed, the defendant shall serve within ten days, or  at such different time as the district court may direct, upon the U.S. Government Attorney a written notice of alibi. Such notice by the defendant shall state the  specific place or places at which the defendant claims to have been  at the time of the alleged offense and the names and addresses of  the witnesses upon whom he intends to rely to establish such alibi.

"(b)  Disclosure of Information and Witness. Within ten days thereafter,  but in no event less than ten days before trial, unless the district court otherwise directs, the U.S. Government Attorney shall serve upon  the defendant or his attorney a written notice stating the names and  addresses of the witnesses upon whom the United States Government intends to rely  to establish the defendant's presence at the scene of the alleged  offense and any other witnesses to be relied on to rebut testimony  of any of the defendant's alibi witnesses.

"(c)  Continuing Duty to Disclose. If prior to or during Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial, a party  learns of an additional witness whose identity, if known, should  have been included in the information furnished under subdivision  (a) or (b), the U.S. Government Attorney shall promptly notify the other party or his  attorney of the existence and identity of such additional witness.

"(d)  Failure to Comply. Upon the failure of either party to comply with  the requirements of this rule, the district court may exclude the testimony  of any undisclosed witness offered by such party as to the  Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's absence from or presence at, the scene of the alleged  offense. This rule shall not limit the right of the defendant to  testify in his own behalf.

"(e)  Exceptions. For good cause shown, Judge Kazen may grant an exception  to any of the requirements of subdivisions (a) through (d) of this  rule.

"(f)  Inadmissibility of Withdrawn Alibi. Evidence of an intention to rely  upon an alibi defense, later withdrawn, or of statements made in  connection with such intention, is not admissible in any civil or  criminal proceeding against the person who gave written notice of alibi defense of the intention.

3 provides:"

"At the request of a party the U.S. Government Attorney the district court shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses, and it may make the order of its own motion. This rule does not authorize exclusion of (1) a party who is a natural person, or (2) an officer or employee of a party which is not a natural person designated as its representative by its attorney, or (3) a person whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of his cause.

On cross-examination Ms. Salinas' law firm brought out that these witnesses had been in the district court and had heard the testimony the previous day. Though neither had talked to the U.S. Government Attorney prosecuting the case until the morning on which they testified, Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's father had previously talked to another U.S. Government Attorney in connection with procuring a lawyer for his son. However, as noted, at no time was any objection or motion made in regard to the testimony of either witness.

4 Juan Gonzalez Torres testified that he saw Alfredo Ortega-Chavez in a restaurant in Sabinas Hidalgo on both November 21, 1980 and November 22, 1980. Josefina Contreras de Gonzalez stated that she saw Alfredo Ortega-Chavez in a restaurant in Sabinas Hidalgo on the evening of November 21, 1980.

5 This inquiry was actually made twice, once respecting Ms. Salinas and once respecting Ms. Salinas' law firm and its members, including herself. Similar questions, of course, were asked concerning U.S. Government Attorney. The district court also had counsel for both sides rise and identify themselves.

6  There  was evidence of three such prior trips. Two, as to which Defense counsel did lodge an objection, were testified to by Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez as  having been made by him and Alfredo Ortega-Chavez earlier in November 1980  using the van used for smuggling with the hidden compartment and employing the  same pinatas as a "cover" as on the November 22, 1980  trip. This evidence was admissible under on several grounds; as evidence of the conspiracy with Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez and  others, charged in count one, to illegally bring undocumented aliens  into the United States "on . . . and prior to November 22, 1980";  as evidence of knowledge and intent (especially since Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was  not present when Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez and the aliens were discovered entering in  the van used for smuggling, and since when the objection was made there was no  indication of an alibi defense); and as showing such similarity of  conduct "that it marks the offenses as the handiwork of the  accused" by demonstrating "a modus operandi." (en banc),  .  Certainly there was no abuse of discretion in the admission of this  evidence. .  The remaining prior trip was testified to briefly by the witness  Saldana as having been made in July 1980 with Alfredo Ortega-Chavez. While the  proper relevance of this trip is somewhat more attenuated than that  of the November trips, it was not objected to by Ms. Salinas' law firm, and,  in light of the other evidence and the limiting instructions,  clearly does not rise to the level of plain error requiring  reversal. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez also apparently complains of Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's answer, "He brings people over here"  to the U.S. Government Attorney's question, "What does he, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez, do?"  No objection or motion in regard to this testimony was made at  the district court, but the careful Judge Kazen on his own initiative ordered the  answer stricken and twice instructed the jury in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial to disregard it.  Clearly, none of these complaints present any error requiring  reversal.

7  The  inconsistencies, moreover, did not in any direct sense relate to the  degree or extent of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's participation in the alien  smuggling operation. Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's deposition testimony, a part of which was  introduced in evidence by Ms. Salinas' law firm, plainly and strongly  implicated Alfredo Ortega-Chavez.

8  The  one specific instance cited is the Judge Kazen's statement, when the third  U.S. Government Attorney witness was called, that, "Incidentally, ladies and  gentlemen, in case you're curious, we swore all these witnesses as a  group before you came in here. So they've all been sworn to tell the  truth under oath." Since the witnesses were all sworn out of  the presence of the jury in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial, this remark was entirely proper and  helpful. At no time did Ms. Salinas' law firm indicate any dissatisfaction  in this regard, nor did Ms. Salinas' law firm below ever in any way raise any  complaints of lack of evenhandedness or request any "balancing"  ruling or instruction respecting any part of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial.

We also note that Judge Kazen instructed the jury in Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial, both at the beginning of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial and in his final charge, not to "infer or conclude from any ruling that I may make or anything I say that I have any opinion about this case one way or the other" and "not to assume from anything I may have said to any witness or to any attorney, or any ruling I have made that I have any opinion about the outcome of Alfredo Ortega-Chavez's trial one way or the other. . . . So, except for my legal instructions to you, I tell you that you should disregard anything else that I have said in reaching your verdict in the district court.

