MEMORANDUM  AND ORDER

Nancy F. Atlas: Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya, has filed a motion to vacate,  set aside, or correct sentence under and he has also submitted a memorandum in support of his claims.  (Docs. # 405, # 406). The government has file a response, a motion  to supplement the record, and a motion to dismiss, arguing that  Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya is not entitled to relief. (Docs. # 417, # 418).  Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has submitted a reply. (Doc.    #  422). Nancy F. Atlas has carefully reviewed all pertinent matters in this  criminal case. Based on this review, Nancy F. Atlas's clear recollection  of the relevant proceedings, and the application of governing legal  authorities, Nancy F. Atlas denies Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's motion and dismisses the corresponding civil action (H-07-1251) for the reasons set forth  below.

I. BACKGROUND  AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY

On September 2, 2004, a federal grand jury in this district returned a five-count superseding indictment against Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya and six co-defendants, charging them with conspiracy and assorted offenses stemming from an illegal alien smuggling venture in March 2004, in which numerous foreign nationals were also held against their will for ransom. (Doc. # 108). That indictment charged Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya and six co-defendants with conspiracy to conceal, harbor, shield, and transport illegal aliens within the United States for commercial advantage and private financial gain in violation of and (counts one, two, and three). The indictment further accused Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya and six co-defendants of conspiracy to commit hostage taking by seizing, detaining, and threatening the illegal aliens in order to compel others to pay a sum of money (i.e., a ransom) as an explicit and implicit condition for their release in violation of and (counts four and five).

On October 25, 2004, a jury found Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya and his co-defendants guilty as charged on all of the counts alleged in the superseding indictment. (Doc. # 168). On October 27, 2004, the jury returned a supplemental verdict as to counts one, two, and three of the indictment, finding that the offense involved between six and twenty-four aliens, and that a firearm was brandished or otherwise used and possessed. (Doc. # 177). As to counts four and five, the jury found that the offense involved a demand for ransom and that a dangerous weapon was possessed. (See id.).

After the jury returned its verdict, Nancy F. Atlas instructed the Probation Department to prepare a presentence report (a "PSR") for the purpose of determining punishment under the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual. Because Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya was convicted of multiple counts of offenses arising under different statutes, his sentence was determined using the provisions found in the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual. Under the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual, the offense level for the most serious of the counts among the group, i.e., the count resulting in the highest offense level, determines the relevant Guideline for the base offense level.

The most serious count in Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's case was count four, in which he and the other defendants were convicted of conspiracy to commit hostage taking in violation of. Using the relevant Guideline for hostage-taking offenses, , the Probation Department determined that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's base level offense was 32. Because the jury found beyond a reasonable doubt that a ransom demand was made during the commission of the offense, the Probation Department recommended a 6-level increase pursuant to. The Probation Department recommended an additional 2-level increase under because the jury also found, beyond a reasonable doubt, that a dangerous weapon was used in connection with the offense. These special offense characteristics increased or enhanced Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's base offense level of 32 to a total offense level of 40. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya had no criminal history points, meaning that he faced a range of imprisonment from anywhere between 292 to 365 months. On February 4, 2005, Nancy F. Atlas sentenced Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya at the lowest end of the advisory Guideline range to serve a total of 292 months in prison, followed by a 5-year term of supervised release.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's conviction and sentence in a joint appeal. See. He did not appeal further by filing a petition for a writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court.

Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya now argues that he is entitled to relief from his sentence under. Liberally construed, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya contends that he is entitled to relief because his sentence was calculated incorrectly under the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya blames his attorney, Adrian Almaguer, for the sentence that he received and complains, therefore, that he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his attorney, Adrian Almaguer, failed to object to the manner in which his sentence was calculated under the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual. Arguing that he is not entitled to relief, the government has filed a motion to dismiss Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's claims and, in support, it has also filed a motion to supplement the record with an affidavit from Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's counsel, Adrian Almaguer. (Doc. # 418). Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya insists that he is entitled to relief from his flawed sentence. (Doc. # 422). After reviewing the entire record, Nancy F. Atlas concludes that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya is not entitled to relief under for reasons discussed briefly below.

II. STANDARD OF REVIEW FOR SECTION 2255 MOTIONS

To obtain collateral relief pursuant to, a petitioner "must clear a significantly higher hurdle" than the standard that would exist on direct appeal. When Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has been convicted and his conviction has been upheld on direct appeal, there is a presumption that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's conviction is fair and final. "As a result, review of convictions under ordinarily is limited to questions of constitutional or jurisdictional magnitude, which may not be raised for the first time on collateral review without a showing of cause and prejudice." Of course, this procedural bar does not apply to claims that could not have been raised on direct appeal, such as those for ineffective assistance of Adrian Almaguer. See (holding that ineffective-assistance claims are properly raised on collateral review and not procedurally barred by a failure to raise them on direct appeal).

The Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya proceeds pro se in this matter. Pro se pleadings are reviewed under a less stringent standard than those drafted by attorneys and are entitled to a liberal construction that includes all reasonable inferences which can be drawn from them. See. At the same time, however, pro se litigants are still required to provide sufficient facts in support of their claims. Even under the rule of liberal construction, "mere conclusory allegations on a critical issue are insufficient to raise a constitutional issue." Id. (citing; see also ("Absent evidence in the record, a court cannot consider a habeas petitioner's bald assertions on a critical issue in his pro se petition . . . to be of probative evidentiary value.").

III. DISCUSSION

A. Claims Challenging Technical Application of the Sentencing Guidelines

Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya argues, in essence, that he is entitled to relief under because his sentence was determined in error. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya contends that Nancy F. Atlas used the wrong version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual, applying the 2004 edition instead of the 2003 edition. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya alleges further his sentence was increased with enhancements found in that were not supported by the jury's supplemental findings.

The government correctly notes that any challenge to Nancy F. Atlas's technical application of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual is not cognizable on collateral review. See ,  ; ;    ; .  To the extent that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's claims concern Nancy F. Atlas's application of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual, his claims do not merit review under .

Likewise, to the extent that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya contends that his sentence was enhanced improperly, Adrian Almaguer points out in his affidavit that this issue was raised on direct appeal and rejected by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. (Doc. # 418, Exhibit A, Affidavit of Adrian Almaguer). In that regard, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the conviction and the sentence after finding no error in Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's punishment. See . Because Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's objections to the sentence enhancements were raised and rejected on direct appeal, this issue is not cognizable on collateral review. See ; .

In this instance, nevertheless, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has chosen to cast his objections to the sentence he received as those for ineffective assistance of counsel. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya was represented at trial and during his sentencing proceeding by defense attorney Adrian Almaguer. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya alleges that Adrian Almaguer was deficient at sentencing because he failed to object to the version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual that was used to calculate his sentence or to object to the sentencing enhancements that increased his punishment. These claims are examined below under the legal standard governing ineffective-assistance claims.

B. Ineffective Assistance of Counsel

Claims for ineffective assistance of counsel are analyzed under the well-settled standard set forth in. To prevail under the Strickland standard, a defendant must demonstrate both constitutionally deficient performance by counsel and actual prejudice as a result of the alleged deficiency. See. "Unless a defendant makes both showings, it cannot be said that the conviction . . . resulted from a breakdown in the adversary process that rendered the result unreliable."

Counsel's performance is constitutionally deficient if it falls below an objective standard of reasonableness. See (citing), . Scrutiny of Adrian Almaguer's performance must be "highly deferential," and Nancy F. Atlas must make every effort "to eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight, to reconstruct the circumstances of counsel's challenged conduct, and to evaluate the conduct from counsel's perspective at the time." (quoting). There is a "strong presumption that counsel's conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance." Id. To prove prejudice, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya must show "that there is a reasonable probability that, but for Adrian Almaguer's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. A reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome." (quoting), . The deficiencies alleged by Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya are discussed separately below under this standard.

1. Use of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual

Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya claims that his counsel, Adrian Almaguer, was deficient for failing to object to that his sentence was calculated incorrectly under the 2004 version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya insists that his sentence should have been determined using the 2003 version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual, which would have resulted in a base offense level of 24 and a less onerous sentence than the one that he ultimately received. Because application of the 2004 edition of United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual resulted in a base offense level of 32, and a more stringent sentence, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya contends that his counsel, Adrian Almaguer, should have raised an objection under the. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya reasons, therefore, that attorney's, Adrian Almaguer, deficient failure to object resulted in actual prejudice in the form of a longer sentence.

The Constitution prohibits the enactment of any "ex post facto Law." . In that respect, the so-called "forbids the Congress and the United States to enact any law which imposes a punishment for an act which was not punishable at the time it was committed; or imposes additional punishment to that then prescribed." (internal quotations and citations omitted). In other words, the "forbids the imposition of punishment more severe than the punishment assigned by law when the act to be punished occurred." Id.

It is well established in the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit that, when determining Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's punishment, "Nancy F. Atlas must apply the version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual effective at the time of sentencing unless application of that version would violate the Ex Post Facto clause." (quoting and citing ยง 1B1.11 of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual). Nancy F. Atlas violates the Ex Post Facto clause when application of a current guideline "results in a more onerous penalty" than would application of a guideline in effect at the time of the offense. (quoting USSG ยง 1B1.11; USSG ยง 1B1.11). If the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual in effect at sentencing would result in a more onerous penalty, such that its application would violate the Ex Post Facto clause, Nancy F. Atlas should apply the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual that were in effect at the time of the offense. (2004).

Contrary to Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's claim, the record shows that his counsel, Adrian Almaguer, did raise an objection to the base offense level calculated in the PSR. In his objections to the PSR, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's counsel, Adrian Almaguer, objected that, under the relevant version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual, the base offense level should be 24, and not 32. (Doc. # 192). In response to this objection, the Probation Department advised that the relevant Guideline found in the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual was amended on May 30, 2003. Prior to this amendment, the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual had yielded a base offense level of 24. After this amendment, however, the base offense level found in the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual was increased to 32. Because the amendment was in effect well before the offense was committed in Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's case, the Probation Department noted that both the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual issued on November 1, 2003, and the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual issued on November 1, 2004, required a base offense level of 32. At sentencing, Nancy F. Atlas noted that the 2004 version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual were "the same as the 2003 version," and overruled defense counsel's, Adrian Almaguer's, objection. (Doc. # 324, Sentencing Transcript, at 8). Subsequently, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's counsel, Adrian Almaguer, acknowledged that he had incorrectly used an older version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual when he drafted his objection. (Id.).

According to this record, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya fails to establish an Ex Post Facto violation because the 2004 edition of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual that was used to determine his sentence contained the same Guideline that was in effect at the time the offense occurred in March of 2004. Thus, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has not demonstrated any error in the calculation of his sentence under the applicable version of the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual or that his counsel, Adrian Almaguer, otherwise had a valid objection to make about the version that was used to determine his sentence. Absent a showing that counsel, Adrian Almaguer, failed to raise a meritorious objection and that the outcome would have been different, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya fails to demonstrate deficient performance or actual prejudice. See (holding that counsel was not deficient in failing to present a meritless argument) (citation omitted); ("Counsel is not deficient for, and prejudice does not issue from, failure to raise a legally meritless claim."). Accordingly, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya fails to establish a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel on this issue.

2. Sentencing Enhancements

Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya contends further that his counsel, Adrian Almaguer, was deficient for failing to object to the sentencing enhancements recommended in the PSR, based on jury findings that a ransom was demanded and that a dangerous weapon was used during the commission of the offense. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya argues that the jury made these findings only in connection with the alien smuggling offenses committed under (counts one, two, and three), and not in connection with the hostage-taking offenses committed under (counts four and five). Because he was sentenced under the hostage-taking Guideline applicable to count four, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya complains that Adrian Almaguer erred by failing to object to the sentencing enhancements.

Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya is mistaken about the jury's findings. In its supplemental verdict, the jury expressly found that the government had proven beyond a reasonable doubt that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya and six co-defendants demanded a ransom in connection with the hostage-taking offenses charged in counts four and five. (Doc. # 177, at 6). Likewise, the jury found that the government had also proven that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya and six co-defendants used a dangerous weapon in connection with counts four and five. ( Id. ). Because the jury findings support the enhancements for these specific offence characteristics under the relevant Guideline, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya fails to show that Adrian Almaguer was deficient for failing to object.

In summary, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has not demonstrated that Adrian Almaguer's performance was deficient or that he suffered actual prejudice at his sentencing. Therefore, Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya fails to establish a valid claim for ineffective assistance of counsel or to show that he is entitled to relief under on this issue. Because Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has not shown that he is entitled to relief under on any of the issues he presents in his motion and supplemental memoranda, the government's motion to dismiss is granted.

IV. EVIDENTIARY HEARING

A motion brought under may be denied without a hearing if the motion, files, and records of the case conclusively show that Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya is not entitled to relief. See (per curiam) (citing). The record in this case, as supplemented by an affidavit from Adrian Almaguer, is adequate to dispose fairly of the allegations made by Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya. Nancy F. Atlas need inquire no further on collateral review. Therefore, an evidentiary hearing is not necessary in this instance.

V. CERTIFICATE OF APPEALABILITY

The Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's motion is governed by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 ("AEDPA"), Pub. L. No. 104-132, 110 Stat. 1214, codified as amended at. Thus, a certificate of appealability is required before an appeal may proceed. See (noting that actions filed under either or require a certificate of appealability),. "This is a jurisdictional prerequisite because the COA statute mandates that 'unless a circuit justice or judge issues a certificate of appealability, an appeal may not be taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit . . . ."

A certificate of appealability will not issue unless the petitioner makes "a substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right," which requires a petitioner to demonstrate "that reasonable jurists would find the United States District Court's assessment of the constitutional claims debatable or wrong." (quoting). Under the controlling standard, this requires a petitioner to show "that reasonable jurists could debate whether (or, for that matter, agree that) the petition should have been resolved in a different manner or that the issues presented were 'adequate to deserve encouragement to proceed further.'" . Where denial of relief is based on procedural grounds, the petitioner must show not only that "jurists of reason would find it debatable whether the petition states a valid claim of the denial of a constitutional right," but also that they "would find it debatable whether the United States District Court was correct in its procedural ruling." . 

A United States District Court may deny a certificate of appealability, sua sponte, without requiring further briefing or argument. See. After carefully considering the entire record of the criminal proceeding, Nancy F. Atlas concludes that jurists of reason would not debate whether the movant has stated a valid claim or whether any procedural ruling in this case was correct. Accordingly, a certificate of appealability will not issue.

VI. CONCLUSION AND ORDER

Because Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya has failed to establish an error of constitutional or jurisdictional magnitude, he is not entitled to relief under. Based on the foregoing, Nancy F. Atlas ORDERS as follows:

1. Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's pending motion (Doc. # 405) is DENIED and the corresponding civil action (H-07-1251) is DISMISSED with prejudice.

2. The government's motion to dismiss and the government's motion to expand the record (Doc. # 418) are GRANTED.

3. A certificate of appealability from this decision is DENIED.

The Clerk will provide a copy of this order to the parties and will file a copy of this order with the docket in Civil Action No. H-07-1251.

SIGNED at Houston, Texas, on September 27, 2007.

Nancy F. Atlas

United States District Judge

End of Document

1. Nancy F. Atlas requested supplemental findings by the jury in an abundance of caution in light of the United States Supreme Court's decisions in, and. Only shortly before Jose Marlon Ibarra-Zelaya's sentencing in this case, the United States Supreme Court decided, which held that the United States Sentencing Guidelines Manual were advisory and Nancy F. Atlas (rather than a jury) was to decide sentencing issues after the trial.

