Agent Trevino then made the decision to pass the black Dodge pickup truck and follow RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan, but since the black Dodge pickup truck had "slowed down when he was behind it," RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan was no longer in view, and was instead "about two miles ahead." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:08 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino sped up, nearing eighty miles per hour, until he was positioned behind RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan. (Id. at 1:09 p.m.). During his testimony, he again noted that there are "hardly . . . any passenger vehicles out there," because "there's no . . . reason" for a vehicle to be on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 "unless you own a ranch out there . . . or you work for an oil company, inspecting the oil mills." (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:19 p.m.). He explained that, due to the ranches and the oil fields, "if you have a small car and if you go off road, . . . you're going to end up losing a tire or a bumper." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:11-1:12 p.m.). The smaller cars that the United States Border Patrol agents do see are "the same people," the owners of the various ranches on Farm-to-Market Road 2050 and the employees of the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, and "they go through the checkpoint" on U.S. Highway 59 and then turn around before heading down Farm-to-Market Road 2050 to avoid being followed by any United States Border Patrol agents. (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:18 p.m.; May 3rd Hr'g at 1:12-1:13 p.m.). Although United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino testified that he does not know the owners of the vehicles that go to the wind farm near Farm-to-Market Road 2050, he nonetheless recognizes the vehicles "as vehicles that go to the wind farm," because "most of the wind farm vehicles have a sticker in the back," which allows United States Border Patrol agents to "identify the vehicles as being part of the wind farm . . . ." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:17 p.m.). Notably, both of the vehicles, the black Dodge pickup truck and RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s white Malibu sedan, lacked this sticker.