30  The United States Magistrate Judge briefly notes that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. did testify that he asked Officer Reymundo Reyes "what time the buses come over so that he could leave," but was told that he "needed to wait." When he asked why he could not leave, Officer Reymundo Reyes allegedly told him that the "canine was coming" to search the black Dodge pickup truck. This testimony conflicts with that of Officer Reymundo Reyes, who stated that he never told Defendant that he needed to "stay around" and was not otherwise asked about any bus schedule. Based on IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s conflicting testimony, see supra note 20, and therefore his questionable credibility, the United States Magistrate Judge chooses to afford weight to Officer Reymundo Reyes's account of the events, and finds that entirety of the search was consensual. Even if the United States Magistrate Judge were to give weight to IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s testimony that he was detained against his will until United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides showed up "twenty, twenty-five" minutes later, the United States Magistrate Judge nonetheless finds that Officer Reymundo Reyes had reasonable suspicion to detain Defendant until United States Border Patrol's arrival. Officer Reymundo Reyes testified that he was aware that United States Border Patrol agents had "encountered . . . a white passenger vehicle . . . with illegal aliens" and that "there was a black truck with it, but that it was unknown what the truck's involvement was." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:40 p.m.). Officer Reymundo Reyes also testified that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was extremely nervous despite being informed that he had committed only a minor traffic infraction; IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not verify the owner of the black Dodge pickup truck, and changed his story as to who it belonged to; IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not provide any proof of insurance; and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. acknowledged that he was traveling to Dallas, Texas from Laredo, Texas, but was nonetheless taking a notably roundabout route via the best route, Interstate 35. All of these facts provided sufficient reasonable suspicion to temporarily detain IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.. See (citing