At the rearraignment hearing, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa executed a waiver of the right to plead guilty before the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas as well as a consent to proceed before the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. (See D.E. 18, p. 1.) In open court, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa agreed to plead guilty to the Indictment, the United States summarized the written Plea Agreement between Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa and the United States, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas explained that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas may consult the United States Sentencing Commission in determining his sentence and explained the range of punishment. (Id.) The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas found that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa had consented orally and in writing to enter the guilty plea before the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, "fully understands the nature of the charges and penalties," "understands his Constitutional and statutory rights and wishes to waive those rights." (Id., p. 2.) The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas also found that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's plea "is made freely and voluntarily," and that he "is competent to enter this plea of guilty," and that "there is an adequate factual basis for this plea." (Id.) The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas recommended that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas accept the guilty plea and enter final judgment of guilt against Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa. (Id.) In her Report and Recommendation to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas noted that "the parties may file objections to this Report and Recommendation within fourteen days after being served with a copy of the Report and Recommendation."