Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is a defendant.

MEMORANDUM OPINION and ORDER

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa having filed a motion for relief under, and United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas being advised,

IT IS ORDERED that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's motion be, and the same hereby is, DENIED for the reasons which follow.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa appeals from the amended judgment of conviction and sentence imposed by United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas on March 2, 2011 (D.E. 29). He filed this timely Motion on February 27, 2012. (D.E. 34; Civil Action No. L-12-27).

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

A. Course of Proceedings

On March 16, 2010, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was charged with illegal re-entry after deportation in violation of (D.E. 1). On May 13, 2010, pursuant to a Plea Agreement with United States, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa entered a plea of guilty to the indictment (D.E. 14). As part of the Plea Agreement, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa agreed to waive his right to appeal the sentence and to collaterally attack his conviction and sentence, including filing a 2255 Motion (D.E. 15).

On March 2, 2011, the undersigned, Joseph M. Hood, sitting by designation, sentenced Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa to serve 82 months of imprisonment consecutive to 8 months of imprisonment for his violation of supervised release for a total term of imprisonment of 90 months in the custody of the Bureau of Prisons (D.E. 29, p. 3).

Consistent with the provisions of his Plea Agreement, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa did not appeal. Rather, inconsistent with his Plea Agreement, he filed the instant motion on February 27, 2012 (D.E. 34).

B. Statement of Facts Underlying the Conviction and Sentence

1. Offense conduct.

The Plea Agreement Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa entered into with the United States contained the following "Factual Basis for Guilty Plea":

14. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is pleading guilty because he is guilty of the charges contained in Count One (1) of the Indictment, and the facts set forth by the United States meet the elements of the crime he is pleading guilty to on this date. If this case were to proceed to trial, the United States could prove each element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. The following facts, among others, would be offered to establish Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's guilt:

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is a native and citizen of Mexico with no documents allowing him to enter, travel through, or remain in the United States. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was previously removed from the United States on or about March 12, 2008 from Brownsville, Texas to Mexico. Thereafter, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was found in the United States on or about December 21, 2009 at or near Laredo, Texas. There is no record that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa had ever applied for or received the permission of the United States Attorney General or the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to apply to re-enter the United States after his removal.

(D.E. 15, p. 7-8 (emphasis added)). Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa acknowledged that these facts were true by signing the Plea Agreement. See id., p.9.

2. Guilty Plea and Plea Agreement

In addition to the factual basis Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa agreed to, in the Plea Agreement, inter alia, he expressly waived his right to collaterally attack his conviction or sentence in a motion, as follows:

7.  Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is aware that Title affords a defendant the right to appeal the sentence imposed.    The  Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa agrees to waive the right to appeal the sentence imposed  or the manner in which it was determined. Additionally, the  Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is aware that Title ,  affords the right to contest or "collaterally attack" a  conviction or sentence after the conviction or sentence has become  final. The Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa waives the right to contest his/her conviction  or sentence by means of any post-conviction proceeding.

(D.E.  15, p. 4 (emphasis added.)) Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa signed the Plea Agreement, as  well as the "Plea Agreement Addendum," which stated:

I  have consulted with my counsel and fully understand my rights with  respect to the charges pending against me. My counsel has fully  explained and I understand all my rights with respect to the  provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission's Guidelines  Manual which may apply in my case. I have read and carefully  reviewed every part of this plea agreement with my counsel. I  understand this agreement and I voluntarily agree to its terms.

(D.E.  16, p. 2).

At the rearraignment hearing, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa executed a waiver of the right to plead guilty before a United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas as well as a consent to proceed before a United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. (See D.E. 18, p. 1.) In open court, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa agreed to plead guilty to the Indictment, the United States summarized the written Plea Agreement, United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas explained that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas may consult the United States Sentencing Commission in determining his sentence and explained the range of punishment. (Id.) The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas found that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa had consented orally and in writing to enter the guilty plea before a United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, "fully understands the nature of the charges and penalties," "understands his Constitutional and statutory rights and wishes to waive those rights." (Id., p. 2.) The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas also found that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's plea "is made freely and voluntarily," and that he "is competent to enter this plea of guilty," and that "there is an adequate factual basis for this plea." (Id.) The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas recommended that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas accept the guilty plea and enter final judgment of guilt against Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa. (Id.) In her Report and Recommendation to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas noted that "the parties may file objections to this Report and Recommendation within fourteen days after being served with a copy of the Report and Recommendation."

On June 8, 2010, United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas entered an Order stating, inter alia, "Noting no opposition by Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa to the Report and Recommendation, United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas ORDERS that the Report and Recommendation of United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas be and is hereby adopted." (D.E. 19).

3. The Sentence.

Prior to sentencing, United States Probation Office prepared a presentence report ("PSR") which calculated the advisory United States Sentencing Commission imprisonment range based on a total offense level of 21 and a criminal history category of V to be 70 to 87 months, and the statutory maximum term of imprisonment to be 20 years, pursuant to. (PSR ·· 48, 49).

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's counsel filed objections in support of a motion for downward departure for a criminal history score that over-represents the seriousness of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's criminal history because he received two criminal history points for a prior conviction at the age of 18, over 9 years earlier, and three criminal history points for a conviction at the age of 19, which occurred over 8 years earlier. United States Probation Office responded.

The United States Probation Office does not agree. The criminal history points have been correctly calculated and all applicable guidelines have been applied, pursuant to the United States Sentencing Commission. The offense committed by Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa at the age of 18 was for aiding and abetting the illegal reentry of undocumented aliens where he received three years' probation, which was revoked and sentenced to 3 months' imprisonment. The conviction at the age of 19 was for transportation of a certain undocumented alien within the United States by means of a motor vehicle for private financial gain, in which he was sentenced to 21 months' imprisonment, and eventually revoked to 6 months' confinement. Although these arrests occurred over 8 years ago, they demonstrate a pattern of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa violating the immigration laws of the United States.

(United States Probation Office, Supplemental Addendum). Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's counsel also asked the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas for a downward variance from the guideline range and to impose a sentence "that is sufficient, but not greater than necessary," pursuant to the United States Sentencing Commission. (Id.) In addition, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's mother, grandmother, and wife submitted "character letters" for the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas to consider at the time of sentencing. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's wife specifically stated that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa "regrets his decision of re-entering the United States illegally." See United States Probation Office, Second Supplemental Addendum.

At sentencing, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas asked Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa directly whether he had seen the United States Probation Office and whether he had any objections to it. (D.E. 40, p. 2). Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa stated that he had seen it and had no objections. (Id., p. 3). counsel argued the circumstances on the case in support of the downward departure motion. (Id., p. 3-6). Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa then spoke on his own behalf. (Id. p. 6).

The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas said that the criminal history was appropriately calculated and does not warrant a departure. At an offense level 21, criminal history category V, the advisory guideline range found by the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas is 70 to 87 months, with an additional 8 months for the revocation of supervised release, to be served consecutively. (Id., p. 7-8). The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas sentenced Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa to serve 82 months of imprisonment consecutive to 8 months of imprisonment for his violation of supervised release, for a total term of imprisonment of 90 months in the custody of the Bureau of Prisons (D.E. 29, p. 3). When asked Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa expressly stated that he had no "questions or objections regarding that sentence." (D.E. 40, p. 9).

4. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's Instant Claims

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa first alleges that counsel was constitutionally ineffective because he "recommended that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa sign a Plea Agreement which contained waivers of appeal and provided zero benefit to Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa which Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa could have attained via a 'straight up' plea." (D.E. 34, § 2255 Motion, Ground One); (D.E. 35, p. 9-16).

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa next alleges that counsel was constitutionally ineffective for the alleged failure to recognize the "request a downward departure based upon Amendment 740 of the United States Sentencing Commission for cultural assimilation of the United States Sentencing Commission which became active four months prior to his client's sentencing." (D.E. 34, § 2255 Motion, Ground Two); (D.E. 35 p. 16-19).

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's third argument is that his counsel was constitutionally ineffective by failing to recognize that the single recency point added to Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's criminal history score was incorrect due to the elimination of recency points by Amendment 742 of the United States Sentencing Commission, effective November 1, 2010. (D.E. 87, § 2255 Motion, Ground Three); (D.E. 89 p. 20-22).

In his penultimate argument, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa claims that his counsel was ineffective for failing to "either (1) request a motion from the United States Department of Justice for a 'fast track' downward departure as part of his Plea Agreement, or (2) request a downward departure from the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas at sentencing as the 'fast track' program was no longer available in Laredo, Texas." (D.E. 34, § 2255 Motion, Ground Four); (D.E. 35, p. 22-28).

Finally, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa claims that counsel was constitutionally ineffective by failing to investigate Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's "claim that he was in fact a United States citizen and therefore was factually innocent of Illegal Re-entry." (D.E. 34, § 2255 Motion, Ground Six); (D.E. 35 p.28-40).

C. Enforcement Of The Plea Agreement

The United States seeks to enforce the Plea Agreement. In this regard, it is noted that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's motion asserts claims of ineffective assistance of counsel. A liberal reading of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's motion discloses that most of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's allegations regarding his sentence and dissatisfaction with counsel, fall within the scope of his waiver because, on their face, they are not direct challenges to the voluntariness of his plea and, therefore, the waiver. See. On the other hand, an ineffective assistance claim survives a waiver "only when the claimed ineffective assistance directly affected the validity of that waiver or the plea itself." Id. In this case, none of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's claimed ineffective assistance grounds directly affect the validity of the waiver or the plea.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa challenges the validity of his plea in Ground 1 only. However, the allegations in Ground 1 conflict with the record and are otherwise without merit for the reasons which follow.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa voluntarily waived his right to bring this instant action in his Plea Agreement and at his rearraignment. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa entered into a Plea Agreement where, in exchange for the United States' promise to not oppose the 2 acceptance of responsibility points and to move for the third point consistent with the requirements of, he agreed to a broad and unequivocal waiver of collateral relief. The Plea Agreement Addendum expressly stated the following:

10. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is aware that Title affords a defendant the right to appeal the sentence imposed. The Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa agrees to waive the right to appeal the sentence imposed or the manner in which it was determined on any grounds set forth in title. Additionally, the Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is aware that Title, affords the right to contest or "collaterally attack" a conviction or sentence after the conviction or sentence has become final. The Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa waives the right to contest his/her conviction or sentence by means of any post-conviction proceeding, including but not limited to Title.

(D.E. 22, p. 5, §10.)

During Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's rearraignment, in a colloquy with the presiding United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa testified that he had time to talk with his counsel and was satisfied with his counsel's help in this case (D.E. 69, p. 6). Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa testified that he understood the rights he was giving up by pleading guilty. (D.E. 43, p. 15-16, 22). Further, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa acknowledged that he understood the consequences of the waiver of appellate rights and his right to "appeal" his conviction and sentence under the provision of. Id. The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas made the finding that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa understood the nature of a voluntary plea, and, after Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa entered a plea of guilty, found that his plea was knowing and voluntary and he entered into the Plea Agreement knowingly and voluntarily.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's sworn statements in open United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas are entitled to a strong presumption of truthfulness. (citing. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit gives "great weight to the defendant's statements at the plea colloquy." . Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's sworn statements preclude the relief he seeks in this proceeding.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa knew the potential punishment he faced. He also knew his plea was knowing and voluntary. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's testimony was abundantly clear that his decision to plead guilty was voluntary and that no one had forced or coerced him to plead guilty. (D.E. 69, p. 17).

Under the terms of the Plea Agreement, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa should be held to the bargain to which he agreed. He knowingly and voluntarily waived his right to file a motion. Accordingly, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's motion fails, in its entirety, because he specifically waived the right to file such a motion.

The record supports the conclusion that:

(1) the Plea Agreement and the waiver contained therein were knowing and voluntary;

(2) the waiver provision in the Plea Agreement is enforceable and supports the United States' motion for summary judgment; and,

(3) the waiver and the record in this case preclude Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa from asserting all of the grounds in his current motion.

D. An Alternative Basis for Denying Relief

Each of the claims raised by Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa will be separately addressed. None of them warrant relief.

Initially,  Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa claims in his "Affidavit" that he never discussed  it, did not know it contained a waiver of rights, and did not know  that he did not have to sign the Plea Agreement. (D.E. 35, p. 9-10).  These claims are directly contradicted by Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's own statement in  his Plea Agreement Addendum, (D.E. 16, p. 2), his signing the Plea  Agreement (D.E. 15, p. 9), and by the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas's finding  that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa "fully understands the nature of the charges and  penalties" and "understands his Constitutional and  statutory rights and wishes to waive these rights," and that  his "plea is made freely and voluntarily." (D.E. 18, p.  2).

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa has failed to make a credible showing of deficient performance on the part of his counsel in the face of contradictory written evidence in the record, including his express acknowledgment that he is satisfied that his attorney had rendered effective assistance, and that he understands the rights that he had, all as set forth in paragraph 13 of the Plea Agreement. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's belated conclusory assertions on this point are insufficient to invalidate the knowing and voluntary plea which included his express acknowledgment that he "understands and agrees that each and all waivers contained in the Agreement are made in exchange for the concessions made by the United States in this plea agreement." (D.E. 15, p. 4 (¶9)). Those concessions, in paragraph 10 of the plea agreement, obligated the United States to do what it was otherwise not obligated to do, that is, not to oppose a downward adjustment of 3 levels for timely acceptance of responsibility.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's statements under oath are entitled to a strong presumption of truthfulness. Indeed, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affords "great weight to the defendant's statements at the plea colloquy." The record contradicts Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's claim that he did not understand his rights and the charges against him. Additionally, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's waiver of his right to file a motion pursuant to  was knowing and voluntary.

Because Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's challenge to the validity of his Plea Agreement fails, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas can find that the Plea Agreement and his waiver of rights contained therein are valid and enforceable. See. As noted, it is clear from the rearraignment that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa understood that he was waiving his right both to appeal (except under certain circumstances) and to file any motion which is all that is required for his waiver to be enforceable. See (waiver is knowing if defendant understood he had a right, and understood he was giving it up). The claim in Ground One is dismissed as barred by his knowing waiver, contradicted by the record and otherwise insufficient to show that counsel's recommendation that he enter into the Plea Agreement was "below an objective standard of reasonableness."

In short, none of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's arguments compel the conclusion that his plea or the appeal waiver was unknowing or involuntary. The record reveals that he understood the nature of the charges, was admonished as to the constitutional rights he was waiving, and was advised of the potential sentences he faced. In addition, he confirmed under oath that he was entering a knowing and voluntary plea that was not the result of threats or coercion. Every time Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was asked if he understood the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas's admonishments, he answered affirmatively. "Solemn declarations in open court carry a strong presumption of verity." ("The subsequent presentation of conclusory allegations unsupported by specifics is subject to summary dismissal, as are contentions that in the face of the record are wholly incredible."); (holding that the defendant's "statements that his plea was knowing and voluntary and that he understood the rights he was waiving create a presumption that in fact the plea is valid"). See also (finding no error in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas's refusal to hold an evidentiary hearing on ineffective assistance of counsel claim where, at rearraignment, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas reiterated much of what was set forth in the Plea Agreement, which the defendant represented to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas that she read and understood).

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa has failed to show deficient performance by counsel. His allegations are belied by the record that shows a knowing and voluntary plea. He has failed to rebut the presumption that the statements he made under oath during the hearing were true. The initial claims made by Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa are dismissed.

The second argument made by Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa is that his counsel should have requested the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas to apply Amendment 740 of the United States Sentencing Commission to the United States Sentencing Commission, which authorizes a downward departure on the basis of cultural assimilation. Amendment 742 of the United States Sentencing Commission also took effect on November 1, 2010.

However, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's claim that counsel rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance due to his alleged failure to request a downward departure or variance based on cultural assimilation or family circumstances is both contradicted by the record and without merit. The record reflects that the undisputed facts of the case do not merit consideration for a guideline departure for cultural assimilation.

In determining whether a counsel's conduct is deficient, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has cautioned that attorneys should not be subjected to unrealistic standards and that, when reviewing a motion

We recognize the tendency, when all else fails, to blame the lawyer. With that in mind, it bears repeating: "Representation is an art, and an act or omission that is unprofessional in one case may be sound or even brilliant in another." As we have indicated in the past, the acuity of hindsight is not our proper lens. We will not subject attorneys to unrealistic standards.

(citations omitted). Keeping that standard in mind, the United States contends that counsel's conduct was not objectively unreasonable. See ("An attorney's failure to raise a meritless argument thus cannot form the basis of a successful ineffective assistance of counsel claim because the result of the proceeding would not have been different had the attorney raised the issue.")

The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas was made aware by both counsel and Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa, as well as the record, of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's family situation and of his membership in a gang, periods of incarceration, violation of the laws of the United States by returning illegally after deportation and violating supervised release by committing additional offenses, using drugs, failure to report as directed, failure to participate in drug treatment. See the record    …  24-26., 31-34. It would have been frivolous to argue that a defendant who had repeatedly illegally returned to the United States after deportation, who had engaged in alien smuggling, who had used aliases, who listed no substantial assets or liabilities on his financial statement was "culturally assimilated" to a degree warranting a downward departure or variance from the indisputably correctly determined guideline range.

Even if counsel had argued more extensively for a downward variance or departure based on Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's unexceptional family situation and on his "reasons" for knowingly breaking the law by returning illegally after every deportation, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has held that a court may consider a defendant's cultural assimilation, but is not required to give it dispositive weight. Had counsel raised this issue, it would not have received favorable consideration in light of the factors outlined above. Thus, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa cannot establish that his counsel was constitutionally deficient on this ground.

In his third ground for relief, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa complains counsel was ineffective at sentencing for failing to rely on Amendment 742 of the United States Sentencing Commission for calculation of criminal history points. Amendment 742 of the United States Sentencing Commission, effective November 1, 2010, eliminated points previously assigned based on the recency of committing the instant offense less than two years after an offense counted in. As noted above, when Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was sentenced on March 2, 2011, his criminal history calculation included one additional point because the instant offense was committed less than two years after his release from custody. United States Probation Office # 32. His criminal history points amounted to 11, placing him in category V. The Amendment 742 of the United States Sentencing Commission argument was not advanced at sentencing by counsel.

The alleged error by counsel in Ground Three is not an attack on the validity of the waiver or the plea, and is, therefore waived and should be dismissed on the basis of the waiver. In addition, the 2009 edition of the United States Sentencing Commission Manual was used. See United States Probation Office § 12. Obviously, the 2009 edition included the recency point and did not consider Amendment 742 of the United States Sentencing Commission which was not effective until November 1, 2010. More importantly, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa cannot show prejudice. Even if the one additional point for recency had been subtracted from his criminal history computation, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa would still have 10 criminal history points, and would remain in Category V. His advisory United States Sentencing Commission range would be unchanged. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's argument that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas might have given him fewer months of imprisonment if he'd had only 10 criminal history points is purely speculative (not to mention unfounded) and cannot serve to satisfy the prejudice prong of. The calculation of a criminal history score and the issue whether the defendant's criminal history is under-represented are not commensurate inquiries. In providing for departures under, the United States Sentencing Commission recognized that a defendant's "criminal history score is unlikely to take into account all the variations in the seriousness of criminal history that may occur."

In light of these facts, counsel's failure to object to the single recency point which did not affect the advisory guideline range does not demonstrate prejudice and fails as the basis for an constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel claim. The claim in Ground Three is dismissed as without merit.

The alleged error by counsel in Ground Four is not an attack on the validity of the waiver or the plea, and is, therefore waived and should be dismissed on the basis of the waiver. In addition, it is wholly without merit.

The so-called "fast track" programs allow certain defendants to plead guilty and to waive certain rights very early in the criminal process, in exchange for a motion by the United States Department of Justice for downward departure pursuant to. provides: "Upon motion by the United States Department of Justice, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas may depart downward not more than 4 levels pursuant to an early disposition program authorized by the United States Attorney General and the United States Department of Justice in which the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas resides." Thus, the "fast track" program, initially established in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas along the southwestern border of the United States in order to accommodate the large number of immigration cases, authorizes the prosecution to offer defendants some form of sentence reduction in exchange for the waiver of certain procedural rights. See United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, where such programs were initially implemented near the Rio Grande, and where courts like the Laredo, Texas division operate, allowing for efficient handling of cases under the United States Sentencing Commission, including considerations under United States Sentencing Commission and United States Sentencing Commission, as interpreted by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa has not provided any evidence that an early disposition, or "fast track," program was available to him in the Laredo, Texas, or that he could have received any benefit from the program. Accordingly, his counsel was not deficient for failing to ask for that benefit, nor is there any prejudice to Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa as a result of such failure. ("An attorney's failure to raise a meritless argument ... cannot form the basis of a successful ineffective assistance of counsel claim because the result of the proceeding would not have been different had the attorney raised the issue.")

To the extent that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa claims that counsel was constitutionally ineffective by failing to argue that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas should exercise its discretion to impose a sentence that would minimize the sentencing disparity created by fast track programs in some sentencing jurisdictions but not others, a United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas is not required "to factor in, when sentencing a defendant, the sentencing disparity caused by early disposition programs" to prevent a sentence from being unreasonable." In addition, any sentencing disparity resulting from fast track disposition programs is not unwarranted as the disparity was also intended by United States Congress. See. Again, counsel's performance was not constitutionally deficient for failing to raise a meritless claim. See.

In addition, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa has not shown that there was a reasonable probability that but for counsel's failure to make this "disparity" argument the result would have been different. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's argument amounts to nothing more than wishful thinking given his criminal history.

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa claims that he is a United States citizen and his counsel was constitutionally ineffective for failing to investigate that alleged fact. However, his claim that he is a United States citizen is refuted by the record, which was available to counsel. For example, the indictment to which Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa entered a guilty plea charged that he was "an alien who had previously been . . . . deported." (D.E. 1). He conceded or admitted his status as an illegal alien and a native and citizen of Mexico numerous times in open court and under oath. (See, e.g., D.E. 15, p. 7-9); (D.E. 16, p. 2); United States Probation Office § 3. The United States Magistrate Judge found that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa "fully understands the nature of the charges" and his waiver of statutory rights to those charges. (D.E. 18). In his Plea Agreement he expressly "waived any right to have the facts the law makes essential to the punishment either charged in the Indictment or proven to a jury." (D.E. 15, p.1 § 1). The United States Probation Office reported that when Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was interviewed by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents, he "admitted being a native and citizen of Mexico who illegally entered the United States on or about December 23, 2009 by wading the Rio Grande near Laredo, Texas," and that he "did not possess or obtain any documents that would allow him to enter or remain in the United States legally." United States Probation Office § 7. The United States Probation Office went on to state that

In a brief statement to the United States Probation Office, Mr. Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa admitted he knew it was illegal for him to return, or attempt to return to the United States because of his previous deportations to Mexico. However, despite his prior deportations, he illegally re-entered the United States December 23, 2009, by wading across the Rio Grande at Laredo, Texas, to reunite with his family, which includes his mother and siblings in Laredo, Texas. The defendant is remorseful for his actions and apologized for violating the laws of the United States.

United States Probation Office · 11 (emphasis added). Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa told the United States Probation Officer that he was a Mexican citizen born on July 18, 1982 in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas. United States Probation Office · 38. The United States Probation Office also reported:

While incarcerated for his previous felony, defense counsel assisted Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa with his application for derivative citizenship with the Department of Homeland Security/United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) in Laredo, Texas. During the application process, his paternal grandmother submitted a petition for an alien relative wherein she described that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's father intermittently resided in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas and Texas during his childhood. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) subsequently denied the application based on the fact that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa failed to prove that his father was physically present in the United States from the age of 16 through 20 (1978 to 1982) which failed to meet the criteria of him being present for ten years, five after the age of 14, and prior to Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's birth.

United States Probation Office 39. Additionally, the United States Probation Office noted a "character letter" from Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's wife in which she said he "regrets his decision of re-entering the United States illegally." United States Probation Office, Second Supplemental Addendum.

Accordingly, because Petitioner expressly admitted in the Plea Agreement that he was not a United States citizen, and because there is no indication that the Plea Agreement was not knowingly and voluntarily entered into, Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa failed to show that his counsel, who was made aware of all of these facts in the PSR, was constitutionally ineffective for failing to investigate further and argue that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa was a United States citizen. Counsel's conduct in the face of Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's repeated admissions and acknowledgment of his alienage cannot be shown to have fallen "below an objective standard of reasonableness." See .

Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa has failed to rebut the presumption that counsel's conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. He has failed to show that both deficiency and prejudice resulted from counsel's alleged errors in any of his allegations. The motion should be dismissed with prejudice as barred by his valid waiver of collateral attack in his Plea Agreement and, alternatively, without merit.

The motion and the record of this case conclusively show that no relief is warranted. Consequently, there is no need for an evidentiary hearing.

IT IS ORDERED that Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's motion be, and the same hereby is, DENIED.

IT  IS FURTHER ORDERED that the United States' motion for summary judgment/motion to dismiss  Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa's motion be, and the same hereby is, GRANTED.

IT  IS FURTHER ORDERED that Civil Action No. L-12-027 be, and the same hereby is, DISMISSED with prejudice.

A  certificate of appealability is denied as no reasonable jurists  could differ on the outcome of this case.

This  is a final judgment.

This  the 6th day of August, 2012.

Signed  By:

Joseph  M. Hood

Senior  United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas

End  of Document

1  "D.E."  refers to the docket entry in Criminal No. L-10-612, styled  Rogelio Valero-De La Rosa ,  in the Laredo, Texas Division of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas.

2      provides  that a "United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas shall impose a sentence sufficient, but not  greater than necessary, to comply with the purposes set forth in  paragraph (2) of this subsection," and it enumerates several  factors a United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas "shall consider" in determining an  appropriate sentence, including "the nature and circumstances  of the offense and the history and characteristics of the  defendant," .

