Under Brignoni-Ponce ,  the behavior of the vehicles' drivers is another factor that may be  afforded weight in the reasonable suspicion analysis. See (citing cases describing "erratic driving" and the "use  of 'load car—lead car' driving pattern, commonly used by   smugglers" and stating that "it is beyond dispute that  Border Patrol agents may consider the behavior of a vehicle's driver  in determining whether there is reasonable suspicion to stop that  vehicle."). Here, Agent Rodriguez alerted to the fact that  Defendants had turned down FM 2050 "in tandem . . . one in the  front, one in the back," and thus Agent Trevino left the  checkpoint in pursuit of them. Although "reasonable suspicion  cannot result from the    simple fact that two cars are traveling on a roadway . . . , one in  front of the other," "connecting factors" between the  vehicles could rationally lead an agent to believe that the vehicles  are in fact driving "in tandem." (citing .  And "a belief that two vehicles are traveling in tandem in a  lead car and load car arrangement may also contribute to a finding  of reasonable suspicion." (citing ; see  also (rejecting the argument "that traveling near the border,  traveling in a high crime area, and traveling in close proximity to  another vehicle on a rarely traveled road are insufficient, by  themselves, to establish reasonable suspicion" and taking into  account the fact that the defendant "was driving in close  proximity to a pickup on a sparsely traveled road with a reputation  as a smuggling route" in affirming the denial of the motion to  suppress); (noting that "traveling in tandem" is "an arrangement  favored by smugglers"). When Agent Trevino initially went to  follow the vehicles, he had no reason to believe that the two were  connected. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:56 p.m.). However, after his two  registration checks came back to Corinth and Dallas-Fort Worth,  locations "north of San  Antonio ,"    he thought it "odd why those two vehicles from out of town  were on that same road," and it therefore appeared to him  that "those vehicles . . . had ties together" and "both  . . . were riding in tandem south on FM 2050." See (adding to the reasonable suspicion for the stop was the fact that  "both automobiles were registered in the same county and in one  other than the county through which they were driving.").