The  second, third, fourth, and seventh aforementioned factors—the  characteristics of the particular area, the usual traffic patterns  of the road, information regarding recent illegal trafficking in  aliens or narcotics    in the area, and the particular aspects or characteristics of the  vehicle—all contribute to a finding of reasonable suspicion in the  instant case. 21 Farm-to-Market Road 2050 consists solely of ranches and a wind farm,  so "there's no . . . reason" for a vehicle to be on FM  2050 "unless you own a ranch out there . . . or you work for an  oil company, inspecting the oil mills." 22  See (considering in part "that there was no development other than  ranches within twenty miles of the intersection" in finding  that there was reasonable suspicion to make the stop, and  distinguishing the case from others where no reasonable suspicion  was found because of "the presence of a nearby national park").  The majority of vehicles traveling "southbound and northbound  on FM 2050 are therefore . . . oilfield trucks, tankers, utility  trucks, F-150s, and F-250s . . . ." There are "hardly .  . . any passenger vehicles out there," because of the  possibility of "losing a tire or a bumper" on the ranch  roads. The passenger cars that are on FM 2050 generally belong  either to the owners of the various ranches or to the employees of  the wind farm, and are largely recognizable to Border Patrol agents.  Those vehicles    either pass through the checkpoint before turning down FM 2050,  display a wind farm sticker on the rear of the vehicle, or are among  the vehicles the agents know "because they drive every single  day to work." See (noting that "border patrol agents may reasonably be familiar  with most of the ordinary traffic" in a "sparsely  populated" area). Notably, Defendants' vehicles, a "non-work"  truck and a rental passenger vehicle, were neither recognizable by  the Border Patrol agents nor the typical vehicles seen on FM 2050. See (per curiam) ("An agent's inability to recognize a vehicle on a  road that is generally only used by local residents may also  indicate reasonable suspicion . . . ."); ("this Court has in the past given weight to an agent's  observation that a vehicle's appearance was atypical of vehicles in  the particular area in question.").