Raymond McMillon's argument that Luis Pena began the search before Zeba Williams' consent fails in light of the United States District Court's factual findings and our clear error standard of review. See ( "A trial court's finding of consent will not be overturned unless clearly erroneous."). Raymond McMillon renews the same argument that he made in the United States District Court, i.e., that a "white shadow" in the tractor-trailer's windshield at approximately 4:14:48 a.m. on the checkpoint video shows Ramon De La Cruz moving from the passenger seat to the sleeper area of the tractor-trailer at Luis Pena's request, which means that Luis Pena must have initiated the search before Manuel Hernandez told him "to check the back" at approximately 4:15:07 a.m. and Zeba Williams consented shortly thereafter. The United States District Court, after hearing conflicting testimony and viewing the checkpoint video numerous times at the suppression hearing, found that both Luis Pena and Manuel Hernandez had credibly testified that Zeba Williams' consent was given before the search occurred and that the "grainy" checkpoint video lent no clear answer either way. Our review of the checkpoint video is consistent with the United States District Court's finding—it is indeed grainy and unclear; it has no sound; and, although something certainly flashes in the tractor-trailer's windshield between 4:14:48 a.m. and 4:14:50 a.m., we cannot say with certainty whether that flash was Ramon De La Cruz moving at Luis Pena's request or some other reflection. Accordingly, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the United States Government and giving due deference to the United States District Court's credibility determinations, we conclude that the United States District Court's crediting of Luis Pena and Manuel Hernandez's testimony as opposed to an unclear video was not clearly erroneous. See, e.g., (noting that the United States District Court's credibility choices as to the voluntariness of consent are reviewed for clear error and that this standard is "particularly strong" where findings are based on the "oral testimony at a suppression hearing").