6  There  was evidence of three such prior trips. Two, as to which Defense counsel did lodge an objection, were testified to by Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez as  having been made by him and Alfredo Ortega-Chavez earlier in November 1980  using the same van with the hidden compartment and employing the  same pinatas as a "cover" as on the November 22, 1980  trip. This evidence was admissible under on several grounds; as evidence of the conspiracy with Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez and  others, charged in count one, to illegally bring undocumented aliens  into the United States "on . . . and prior to November 22, 1980";  as evidence of knowledge and intent (especially since Alfredo Ortega-Chavez was  not present when Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez and the aliens were discovered entering in  the van, and since when the objection was made there was no  indication of an alibi defense); and as showing such similarity of  conduct "that it marks the offenses as the handiwork of the  accused" by demonstrating "a modus operandi." (en banc),  .  Certainly there was no abuse of discretion in the admission of this  evidence. .  The remaining prior trip was testified to briefly by the witness  Saldana as having been made in July 1980 with Alfredo Ortega-Chavez. While the  proper relevance of this trip is somewhat more attenuated than that  of the November trips, it was not objected to by Ms. Salinas, and,  in light of the other evidence and the limiting instructions,  clearly does not rise to the level of plain error requiring  reversal. Alfredo Ortega-Chavez also apparently complains of Ramon Gonzalez Sanchez's answer, "He brings people over here"  to the United States Government's question, "What does he, Alfredo Ortega-Chavez, do?"  No objection or motion in regard to this testimony was made at  trial, but the careful Judge Kazen on his own initiative ordered the  answer stricken and twice instructed the jury to disregard it.  Clearly, none of these complaints present any error requiring  reversal.