Juventino Mejia-Orosco is a defendant.

CLARK, District Judge of the Western District of Louisiana:

Juventino Mejia-Orosco was convicted of illegally transporting Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales into the United States Congress in violation of. He does not contest the underlying conviction, but argues that the United States District Court imposed an improper sentence. Because the United States District Court correctly applied the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines to its factual findings, and because those findings were not clearly erroneous, the United States Court of Appeals affirm.

I.

Juventino Mejia-Orosco is a citizen of Guatemala. He earns his living trucking curios from Guatemala, through Mexico, to the United States Congress. In April of 1988, on one of his many trips to this country, he brought along Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales, both citizens of Guatemala and purportedly related to Juventino Mejia-Orosco. After Juventino Mejia-Orosco and Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales had travelled through Mexico and arrived in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico, Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales disembarked.

Juventino Mejia-Orosco drove Juventino Mejia-Orosco's van across the Rio Grande into Laredo, Texas. Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales waded the Rio Grande. They did not pass through customs and had no legal right to enter the United States Congress. Juventino Mejia-Orosco and Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales then regrouped and spent two days in Laredo, Texas. During this time, Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales contacted relatives of Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales living in the United States Congress. The family members were instructed to wire Juventino Mejia-Orosco funds. He received $1,000 from Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega's family in Los Angeles and $1,700 from relatives of Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales living in New York City. Two days after arriving, Juventino Mejia-Orosco, Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega, and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales drove to the Laredo International Airport. Juventino Mejia-Orosco supplied Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales with airline tickets to San Antonio and the key to the motel room in San Antonio there. Later, Juventino Mejia-Orosco met Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales at the motel room in San Antonio and drove them to the San Antonio International Airport. At the airport, Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega was detained and questioned by immigration officials. He admitted that he and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales had illegally entered the United States Congress with the aid of Juventino Mejia-Orosco. With this information, law enforcement officials were able to locate and detain Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales, who was aboard the airplane to New York City awaiting departure to New York City, and Juventino Mejia-Orosco. A search of Juventino Mejia-Orosco's van uncovered 4,102 United States Congress dollars and 574,000 Mexican pesos.

Juventino Mejia-Orosco pled guilty to one count of illegally transporting Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales into the United States Congress. He admits that he received $850 from each of the transported aliens in exchange for his illegal services. He was sentenced to 10 months in prison and fined $4,000. Juventino Mejia-Orosco's van, used to transport Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales from Guatemala, has been seized pending forfeiture proceedings.

The United States District Court calculated the sentence imposed for human smuggling operation on Juventino Mejia-Orosco according to the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines promulgated by the United States Sentencing Commission. See. On appeal, Juventino Mejia-Orosco argues that the United States District Court erroneously imposed a sentence of 10 months imprisonment. The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines, in Juventino Mejia-Orosco's view, would permit a maximum sentence of no more than 7 months. Juventino Mejia-Orosco's appeal is specifically authorized by statute.

II

Our review of the United States District Court's sentence for human smuggling operation imposed by CLARK, District Judge of the Western District of Louisiana is governed by and:

(d) Consideration.--Upon review of the record, the United States Court of Appeals shall determine whether the sentence-- 
(1) was imposed in violation of law;
(2) was imposed as a result of an incorrect application of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines;
(3) is outside the range of the applicable sentencing guideline for human smuggling operation, and is unreasonable, having regard for-- 
(A) the factors to be considered in imposing a sentence, as set forth in chapter 227 of this title; and
(B) the reasons for the imposition of the particular sentence, as stated by the United States District Court pursuant to the provisions of ; or
(4) was imposed for an offense for which there is no applicable sentencing guideline for human smuggling operation and is plainly unreasonable.

The United States Court of Appeals shall give due regard to the opportunity of the United States District Court to judge the credibility of the witnesses, and shall accept the findings of fact of the United States District Court unless they are clearly erroneous.

(e) Decision and disposition

If the United States Court of Appeals determines that the sentence--
(1) was imposed in violation of law or imposed as a result of an incorrect application of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines, the court shall remand the case for further sentencing proceedings with such instructions as the court considers appropriate;
(2) is outside the range of the applicable sentencing guideline for human smuggling operation and is unreasonable or was imposed for an offense for which there is no applicable sentencing guideline for human smuggling operation and is plainly unreasonable, it shall state specific reasons for the conclusions and . . .
it shall set aside the sentence and remand the case for further sentencing proceedings with such instructions as the United States Court of Appeals considers appropriate.
(3) is not described in paragraph (1) or (2), it shall affirm the sentence.
Under these provisions, the characterization of the alleged sentencing error in human smuggling operation case is critical. A sentence imposed 'outside the range of the applicable United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines' will be reversed only if it is unreasonable. On the other hand, a sentence 'imposed as a result of an incorrect application of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines' must be reversed even if reasonable. Findings of fact that underlie the United States District Court's sentence for human smuggling operation are reviewed under a clearly erroneous standard.

The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines do not merely change the procedures used to impose sentences, they initiate an historic shift in modern penology. The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines are designed to create uniform, determinate sentences based upon the crime committed, not the offender. United States Congress abandoned the rehabilitation model that shaped penology in the Twentieth Century. Under the rehabilitation model, sentences were individualized. Prisoners were sentenced according to predictions of 'their potential for, or actual rehabilitation.' .  From this premise, the maxim developed that 'the punishment should fit the offender and not merely the crime.' .  United States Congress concluded after decades of empirical evidence that this commendable and ambitious approach had proven unworkable and unjust. Predictions of an offender's propensity for, or actual, rehabilitation were found to be unsubstantiated and, in fact, incapable of any scientific determination. The result was that an unjustifiably wide range of punishment was meted out to similar offenders convicted of committing similar crimes under like circumstances. In most cases, the United States District Court would impose a term of imprisonment that was almost never fully implemented. Instead, prisoners were released based upon the determination of parole officials that the prisoner was rehabilitated.

By enacting the sentencing guidelines, United States Congress returned federal sentencing to an earlier philosophy that the punishment should fit the crime and that the main purpose of imprisonment is punishment. Edward M. Kennedy described the guidelines as 'a comprehensive and far reaching new approach . . . designed to reduce the unacceptable disparity of punishment that plagues the federal system, and . . . to assure sentences that are fair--and are perceived to be fair--to offenders, victims, and society.' 32 Fed.B. News & J. 60, 65 (1985). Similar crimes should be punished similarly. To accomplish this goal, United States Congress limited the discretion of United States District Court judges through the guidelines and made the sentence imposed for human smuggling operation determinate by abolishing parole. The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines provide the analytic framework needed to create uniform sentences. The accompanying abolishment of parole ensures that the sentence imposed for human smuggling operation will be served.

Sentencing under the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines is not, however, an exact science. Justice cannot be meted out according to mathematical formulas. The universe of potential factors that might affect the seriousness of a given offense is too broad to be refined to a mechanistic approach. The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines are not intended to cover all contingencies or rigidly bind United States District Court judges. The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines do not impose the sentence, they provide a framework for a United States District Court to impose a sentence. 'The sentencing judge has an obligation to consider all the relevant factors in a case and to impose a sentence outside the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines in an appropriate case. The purpose of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines is to provide a structure for evaluating the fairness and appropriateness of the sentence for an individual offender, not to eliminate the thoughtful imposition of individualized sentences.' Senate Report No. 225, reprinted in 1984 U.S. Code Cong. & Admin.News 3182, 3235.

The United States District Court's fact-finding power is an important guarantor of the practical judgment essential to any just sentencing procedure. As we have already mentioned, the guidelines statute expressly insulates such fact-finding against appellate attack. (endorsing the clearly erroneous standard). Once the United States District Court has made factual findings, the United States Court of Appeals' sentence for human smuggling operation will be affirmed if it results from a proper application of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines to those facts. On the other hand, if the United States District Court applies the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines to the found facts and then departs from the resulting sentencing range, the United States District Court must offer acceptable reasons for its departure: a departure is subject to reversal unless it is 'reasonable.' 

III

Sentencing under the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines is based upon two factors--the offense and Juventino Mejia-Orosco's criminal history category. The statute under which Juventino Mejia-Orosco was convicted determines a base offense level of 18. This base level is then adjusted upward or lower by specified offense characteristics. For example, robbery has a base offense level of 18. This base level is increased incrementally if the amount taken in the robbery totals more than $2,500. The level is also increased if a firearm is used, more if the firearm is brandished, even more if discharged. Any bodily injury resulting from the crime also increases the offense level. Cooperation with United States Congress officials, on the other hand, decreases the offense level. Juventino Mejia-Orosco's criminal history category is calculated independently from the offense level and its incremental adjustments. One of six different categories is assigned Juventino Mejia-Orosco based upon a point scale. Points are assigned to prior convictions depending upon the length of sentence and whether the human smuggling operation was committed within two years of release from prison or while under any criminal sentence.

The final sentencing range for human smuggling operation is calculated from a table by cross-referencing the offense level with Juventino Mejia-Orosco's criminal history category. The table sets sentencing ranges in which the maximum sentence exceeds the minimum by the greater of 6 months or 25%. This allows CLARK, District Judge of the Western District of Louisiana some latitude to fine tune the sentence to the individual offender and the circumstances of Juventino Mejia-Orosco's offense. The United States District Court may depart from the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines when it finds 'an aggravating or mitigating circumstance . . . that was not adequately taken into consideration by the United States Sentencing Commission. . . .' This discretion is narrowed by lists of those circumstances taken into consideration and those that do not justify a departure. See United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines at 5.25-5.34.

The United States District Court calculates the offense level and the criminal history category from the information contained in the pre-sentence report. Departures from the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines will also generally be justified from the information contained in this report. The accuracy of the presentence report, therefore, is critical to proper application of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines, and strict compliance with the rules of criminal procedure governing this report is warranted.

In today's case, Juventino Mejia-Orosco does not challenge the information contained in Senate Report No. 225. Rather, he contends that the evidence recited by Senate Report No. 225 does not justify the sentence imposed for human smuggling operation. Juventino Mejia-Orosco pled guilty to one count of illegally transporting Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales in violation of. The base offense level for such a violation is 18. Juventino Mejia-Orosco received a two-level reduction in this offense level for accepting responsibility for his offense. He had a criminal history category of Juventino Mejia-Orosco's criminal history category, the lowest category. With these factors, the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines sets a range of 1-7 months imprisonment. The imposed sentence of 10 months is thus, in the defendant's view, three months too long.

The United States District Court, however, found that an offense level of 7 did not accurately reflect the nature of the human smuggling operation committed. The United States District Court gave alternative justifications for raising the offense level to 18, which authorizes the stiffer 10-month sentence imposed for human smuggling operation. First, the United States District Court determined that Juventino Mejia-Orosco played an aggravating role in the human smuggling operation; that is, he was a manager or leader of human smuggling operation. Such a role in any criminal activity involving 2-5 participants warrants a 2-level increase in the offense level.

The United States District Court also justified the 2-level increase by reference to the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines, which requires a 2-level increase in the offense level if 'the defendant previously has been convicted of smuggling, transporting, or harboring an unlawful alien, or related offense. . . .' The United States District Court classed a previous conviction for unlawful entry as a 'related offense' because Juventino Mejia-Orosco was originally charged with transporting four illegal aliens, although he eventually pled guilty to a reduced charge of illegal entry. It is unclear whether the United States District Court intended to apply 2L1.1(b)(2) directly, or to use it as the basis for a departure from the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines. See ยง ยง 4A1.3, 5K2.0. Juventino Mejia-Orosco argues on appeal that the United States District Court misapplied the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines when it made these determinations and that this misapplication requires reversal of his sentence. Because we affirm based upon the United States Court of Appeals' first justification for the two-level increase, we do not reach the second.

An offender plays an aggravating role in the offense if the  Juventino Mejia-Orosco 'was a manager or leader of human smuggling operation.' .  If the Juventino Mejia-Orosco was a manager or leader of human smuggling operation  involving five or more participants, the offense level is increased  by four levels. If there are less than five participants, the  offense level increases two levels. The introductory statement to  this part of    the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines clearly indicates that there must be more than one  participant involved in the criminal activity for this section to  apply. However, the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines makes clear, through its explanation  of the term 'otherwise extensive,' that managerial status  may attach by the orchestration of unwitting or duped participants,  as well as through the leadership of criminally responsible  participants. Although the United States Congress does not contend that  Juventino Mejia-Orosco controlled a sufficient number of people to make his  human smuggling operation 'otherwise extensive' within the meaning of or ,  he might have exercised enough control over unwitting participants  to make him a manager or leader of human smuggling operation within the meaning of .  Finally, 'for the purposes of  the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines,  the aliens  smuggled ,  transported, or harbored are not considered participants unless they  actively assisted in the smuggling, transporting, or harboring of  others.' Commentary to the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines.

The United States District Court found that Juventino Mejia-Orosco was 'a manager or leader of human smuggling operation.' To decide Juventino Mejia-Orosco's appeal of this finding, we must first determine whether the finding was factual or legal. We hold that it was factual. The determination of manager or leader of human smuggling operation status demands that the United States District Court draw an inference from a variety of data, including the information in the pre-sentence report and the defendant's statements and demeanor at the sentencing hearing. Of course, the fact of manager or leader of human smuggling operation status may be more difficult to ascertain than purely physical facts--such as whether the defendant carried a gun during commission of the crime--and may depend upon an assessment of the broad context of the human smuggling operation. But a complex fact is no less a fact.

The Supreme Court of the United States has recognized that findings which require both assessment of complex evidence as well as sensitivity to legal purposes may nevertheless be factual. The Supreme Court of the United States has held that whether cause exists to dismiss a venireman is a factual question. 'Cause' is obviously a complex thing to perceive, but, for purposes of appellate review, it is factual nonetheless. On the civil side, the Supreme Court of the United States has held that the existence of discrimination is a question of fact. Indeed, in criminal cases under the Continuing Criminal Enterprise statute, the defendant's status as a 'manager'--precisely the issue raised by Juventino Mejia-Orosco--is a question of fact for the jury. See e.g., (terms 'managed,' 'supervised,' and 'organized' are to be interpreted according to their ordinary, lay meaning).

Is not the only guideline provision calling upon United States District Court judges to make sophisticated factual determinations. Sections 3B1.2 (requiring the judge to decide whether Juventino Mejia-Orosco was a 'minimal participant' or 'minor participant') and Sections 3B1.3 (requiring United States District Court to decide, among other things, whether Juventino Mejia-Orosco used a 'special skill') demand comparable findings. Judicial fact-finding upon these matters will, like determinations of manager or leader of human smuggling operation status, enjoy the protection of the clearly erroneous standard.

A more exacting approach to appellate review of sentences would frustrate the purpose of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines. As we have already noted, the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines sought to ensure that the United States District Court would continue to take into account 'all the relevant factors in a case.' Indeed, a cramped construction of the United States District Court's fact-finding power would have a perverse consequence: the clearly erroneous standard for departures from the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines would be more deferential than the clearly erroneous standard for applications of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines. This disparity would arise because permits appellate modification to a sentence outside the range of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines only if the sentence is not 'reasonable.' If factual findings were narrowly construed, and legal issues commensurately expanded, actual applications of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines would be subject to review for legal error. The United States District Court would have an incentive to insure against appellate reversal by footing their sentencing decisions on reasonable departures. Such a result would clearly undermine the purpose of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines.

The standard of review which we establish today avoids this odd result.  We   will affirm sentences imposed by United States District Court who make factual  findings that are not clearly erroneous, and who apply the  United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines to those findings. In such cases, the sentencing judge  need not offer further reasons justifying the sentence.    When, however, the judge departs from the guideline range, an  additional reasonableness requirement applies: the judge must offer  reasons explaining why the departure is justified in terms of the  policies underlying the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines. See .

Implicit in what we have said is the conclusion that the United States District Court's simple statement that the defendant is a 'manager' or 'leader' is a finding of fact. Building on the lesson of, we 'decline to require the judge to write out' more specific findings about the defendant. We recognize that so formal a requirement would interfere with the smooth operation of the sentencing hearing. In some instances, what is necessarily a 'judgment call' may not be susceptible of particularization. Nonetheless, we urge United States District Court to clarify their ultimate factual findings by more specific findings when possible. Specific findings will both guide United States Court of Appeals to the evidentiary basis for sentencing judgments, and also help the United States District Court to identify matters relevant to application of the United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines.

Application of the 'clearly erroneous' standard to Juventino Mejia-Orosco's case is easy. The United States District Court judge concluded that Juventino Mejia-Orosco was a manager or leader of human smuggling operation. The undisputed evidence that relatives of Hector Galvencio Paz-Ortega and Carlos Enrique Cruz-Morales were involved in the human smuggling operation provides sufficient support for this factual finding. The relatives either knew that they were aiding a human smuggling operation, in which case they were criminally responsible participants, or they were duped into aiding the human smuggling operation, in which case they were unwitting participants. In either case, the human smuggling operation was extensive within the meaning of United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines. We therefore see no reason to disturb the factual findings of United States District Court.

The judgment and sentence of the United States District Court is

AFFIRMED.

E nd of Document

*  United States District Court, sitting by designation.

