Raymond McMillon argues that even if there was evidence of an agreement with Zeba Williams, there was no evidence that Raymond McMillon and Zeba Williams agreed to transport aliens for commercial advantage or private financial gain. This argument fails. To sustain the conspiracy conviction, the Government was not required to "prove that the offense was committed for commercial advantage or private financial gain." See (rejecting the argument that a jury instruction was flawed because it omitted a pecuniary purpose element). Rather, the language of the statute indicates that pecuniary purpose is a finding that increases the offense's statutory maximum. See id.; compare (providing a statutory maximum of five years' imprisonment for the offense of conspiracy to transport aliens), with id. (increasing the statutory maximum to ten years' imprisonment if the offense "was done for the purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain"). And, here, consistent with, the pecuniary-purpose enhancement was charged in the indictment, put to and found by the jury, and amply supported by the trial evidence. See ( "Any fact (other than prior conviction) that increases the maximum penalty for a crime must be charged in an indictment, submitted to a jury, and proven beyond a reasonable doubt."). Both Ramon De La Cruz and Jorge Miguel Hernandez-Gomez testified that they had arranged to pay thousands of dollars to be smuggled into the United States, and Border Patrol Agent Eric Camacho testified as to how aliens or their families commonly pay smugglers indirectly. See (collecting cases from this circuit and others for the proposition that "financial-purpose" evidence "was sufficient when there was evidence that the defendant was working with a smuggling network and that someone in the network had received or would receive money"). This was sufficient to support the jury's pecuniary purpose special finding, even though, contrary to Raymond McMillon's argument, pecuniary purpose is not an essential element of his conspiracy conviction. See.