Moreover, in the alternative, Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions regarding potential drug trafficking were ever-increasing as the first fifteen minutes of the stop unfolded. Indeed, Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions began before he saw Federico Saldana committing multiple traffic violations. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noticed the recently registered license plates and ran checks on them, discovering the flatbed trailer's license plate had been registered in Laredo four days earlier to Daniel Martin Huerta while the 2008 Chevrolet truck's license plate had been registered four months earlier in San Antonio to Daniel A. Huerta. Williamson County Sheriff's Office observed the erratic driving consistent with an individual perhaps unfamiliar with driving this sort of 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer combination. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noted the oversized tires and after-market rims, which he considered unusual for this type of machinery hauling. Williamson County Sheriff's Office observed a new paint job for the scissor lift and the battery charger area as well as corrugated metal plates under the tires of the scissor left. All of these factors continued to build Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions there might be a load of narcotics hidden in the 2008 Chevrolet truck or the flatbed trailer. Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions only continued to grow as he questioned Federico Saldana about his trip. Troubling statements from Federico Saldana included: (1) he was not the owner of the 2008 Chevrolet truck or flatbed trailer; (2) he had trouble recalling the owner's name; (3) he was driving a heavy piece of machinery over 400 miles from Laredo to Dallas for repairs; (4) he did not know the exact address of his ultimate destination in Dallas; (5) he was supposed to call the owner upon arrival in Dallas to find out the actual address; (6) he was hauling the scissor lift as a favor to the owner and apparently for $300; (7) he was not used to driving a 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer combination; and (8) he did not know the name of the owner's painting company.