Federico Saldana is a defendant.

ORDER

BE IT REMEMBERED on the 12th day of February 2015, the Court held a hearing in the above-styled cause and the parties appeared in person and through counsel. Before the Court are Federico Saldana's Motion to Suppress #24, and the United States (the Government)'s Response #28. Having reviewed the documents, the evidence presented at the hearing, the arguments of counsel, and the governing law, the Court now enters the following opinion and order DENYING the motion.

Background

Three Williamson County Sheriff's Office officials who participated in Federico Saldana's stop and the subsequent search of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer he was driving on the day in question testified at the hearing. Their testimony, along with the Court's review of the Williamson County Sheriff's Office video submitted as evidence at the hearing, establishes the following facts:

On November 24, 2014, Williamson County Sheriff's Office detectives Gary Haston and Heather Vargas were traveling northbound on Interstate 35. Gary Haston, a veteran narcotics investigator with 17 years of experience and who has participated in hundreds of drug interdiction cases, was teaching Heather Vargas, a relative newcomer to the narcotics division, drug interdiction techniques. At some point, their attention was drawn to a 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer transporting a scissor lift. In particular, Gary Haston noticed the license plates for both the truck and the trailer were newly registered. A records check showed the trailer's license plate had been issued in Laredo four days earlier on November 20, 2014, and the registered owner was "Daniel Martin Huerta." The 2008 Chevrolet truck's license plate had been registered in San Antonio on July 31, 2014, and its registered owner was "Daniel A. Huerta."

Gary Haston testified to a number of other observations he made. He noticed the scissor lift had received a new paint job and observed the battery charger area had a new over-coating of paint. See Def. Ex. 2. Williamson County Sheriff's Office also observed the 2008 Chevrolet truck was outfitted with what he considered over-sized tires and after-market rims, which he found atypical for 2008 Chevrolet trucks pulling a heavy piece of machinery. See Def. Ex. 1. Williamson County Sheriff's Office also testified that in his experience large, after-market rims are often used to hide loads of narcotics. Williamson County Sheriff's Office further noted two pieces of steel had been placed under the wheels of the scissor lift, which Williamson County Sheriff's Office interpreted to mean the scissor lift would be on the flatbed trailer for a long time—consistent, according to Williamson County Sheriff's Office, with drug trafficking. See Def. Ex. 2.

According to Williamson County Sheriff's Office, the 2008 Chevrolet truck was traveling at approximately 75 miles per hour, and it changed lanes multiple times in an unsafe manner. Williamson County Sheriff's Office described the 2008 Chevrolet truck as both following vehicles at an unsafe distance in the lane it occupied, and changing lanes into tight spaces where the trailing car in the lane into which the 2008 Chevrolet truck had just moved had to brake to avoid running into the back of the flatbed trailer. Williamson County Sheriff's Office referenced two near-collisions he witnessed. Based on these observations, Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office contacted a patrol deputy in a marked unit to conduct a traffic stop.

At approximately 12:59 p.m., Williamson County Sheriff's Office, responding to the traffic violation information provided by Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office, pulled up behind the 2008 Chevrolet truck traveling in the far right lane. See United States Ex. 1, Clip 1 at 12:59. Williamson County Sheriff's Office testified that he could not recall whether Williamson County Sheriff's Office relayed his drug suspicions at this time, but Williamson County Sheriff's Office assumed the stop related to drugs because he was familiar with Williamson County Sheriff's Office's work as a narcotics investigator. The flatbed trailer at one point momentarily veered onto Interstate 35 before returning inside the lane. Id. at 12:59:21. Williamson County Sheriff's Office initiated a traffic stop on Interstate 35, and the driver stepped out of the 2008 Chevrolet truck, meeting Williamson County Sheriff's Office to the right of the 2008 Chevrolet truck away from traffic. At 13:01:10. The driver identified himself as Federico Saldana. Federico Saldana indicated he was a truck driver by trade but was not used to driving this sort of truck and trailer combination. When asked who the owner of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer were, Federico Saldana was not able to easily recall the owner's name but did indicate—although the audio is not entirely clear—the owner's first name was "Daniel." Id. at 13:02:07.

A few minutes after the stop, Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office arrived on the scene.  Under questioning, Federico Saldana told the officers he lived in Laredo and  was driving the scissor lift to Dallas for repairs as a favor to Daniel Martin Huerta. Federico Saldana stated he was being paid $300 for the job. Federico Saldana did not know the exact address in Dallas where he was to take the trailer but claimed the plan was for him to call Daniel Martin Huerta upon arrival in Dallas for the precise address. Approximately six minutes after the stop, Williamson County Sheriff's Office informed Federico Saldana he was going to give him a warning based on the traffic violations and indicated he would need the registration information for the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer to complete the paperwork. Id. at 13:06:10-45. Federico Saldana stated he had identifying information for Daniel A. Huerta in the 2008 Chevrolet truck, and Federico Saldana gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office consent to retrieve this information from inside the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Id. at 13:06:42. Over the next few minutes, Williamson County Sheriff's Office continued to gather information from Federico Saldana while Williamson County Sheriff's Office looked for the registration documents in the car. Williamson County Sheriff's Office inquired about Federico Saldana's criminal history, and Federico Saldana confirmed he had been arrested multiple times, including for the smuggling of illegal aliens and drugs. The drug smuggling arrest occurred at a checkpoint in Laredo where Federico Saldana was found to have been transporting drugs in his 18-wheeler. In the meantime, Williamson County Sheriff's Office had been unable to find the registration documents and again asked Federico Saldana where they were. Id. at 13:11:58. Federico Saldana again directed Williamson County Sheriff's Office to the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office consent to retrieve those documents. Id.

As Williamson County Sheriff's Office gathered more information, his suspicions of drug trafficking heightened, and he told Federico Saldana that based on what Federico Saldana was telling him, he believed there was dope somewhere on the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer. Williamson County Sheriff's Office strongly encouraged Federico Saldana to tell the officers if there were any drugs. Williamson County Sheriff's Office told Federico Saldana "this is gonna be a turning point in life for you, and it's gonna start right now." Id. at 13:13:09. Williamson County Sheriff's Office told Federico Saldana "we're gonna find the dope, and your cooperation is going to matter a lot." Id. at 13:13:30. Williamson County Sheriff's Office then informed Federico Saldana he wanted to know two things: (1) how much dope there was, and (2) where Federico Saldana was taking the drugs. Id. at 13:13:37. Federico Saldana responded: "There ain't no dope." Id. at 13:13:50. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noted Federico Saldana was evincing signs of nervousness and reiterated "it's going to be a lot less stressful for you if you start cooperating from this point." Id. at 13:14:09. Williamson County Sheriff's Office cautioned Federico Saldana that "if there's a load of dope, we're gonna find it." Id. at 13:14:15. Again, Williamson County Sheriff's Office asked "how much is there? Cause you know I know." Id. at 13:14:20. Federico Saldana again responded: "There's no dope." Id. at 13:14:25. Williamson County Sheriff's Office asked if there was cocaine or methamphetamine, and Federico Saldana said no. Id. at 13:14:30. At this point, Williamson County Sheriff's Office asked "Do you have any objection if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer?" Id. at 13:14:38. Federico Saldana said "no." Id. at 13:14:40. Williamson County Sheriff's Office followed up: "And we're not gonna find anything? Cause I think we're gonna find it." Id. at 13:14:45. Williamson County Sheriff's Office gave Federico Saldana another opportunity to cooperate, telling him "now is the time. Cause if you tell me it's not here, and we find it? Then we're already off on the wrong foot, do you understand?" Id. at 13:15:00. Federico Saldana confirmed he understood, and Williamson County Sheriff's Office asked: "Is that the way we're gonna go?" Id. at 13:15:07. Federico Saldana said "yes sir." Id. at 13:15:09. Williamson County Sheriff's Office clarified, "so you don't have any problems if we search the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer?" Id. at 13:15:17. Federico Saldana immediately responded: "No problem." Id. at 13:15:20.

Williamson County Sheriff's Office proceeded to make arrangements to have a K-9 unit meet them to conduct a search. Over the next few minutes, Williamson County Sheriff's Office started searching in and around the flatbed trailer and 2008 Chevrolet truck. Williamson County Sheriff's Office reapproached Federico Saldana and informed him they were bringing in a dog for a search. Williamson County Sheriff's Office also asked Federico Saldana again about his criminal history and learned Federico Saldana served 9 years in federal prison. Federico Saldana also claimed he completed probation 3 years prior.

After more questions, Deputy Jason Cox and Gary Haston had Federico Saldana drive the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer a few hundred yards to a rest area where it would be safer to conduct the search. Id. at 13:30:01-32:15. Williamson County Sheriff's Office continued searching the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer themselves as they awaited the K-9 unit, which arrived roughly ten minutes later. Gov't Ex. 1, Clip 2 at 13:41:25. The K-9 handler, Josiah Bennett, testified he understood from Williamson County Sheriff's Office that Federico Saldana had given consent to search, and he therefore proceeded to have the dog search the flatbed trailer and the bed of the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Josiah Bennett next had the dog enter the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck through the front and rear doors on the driver side from approximately 1:45:55 to 1:46:45. Id. at 13:45:55-46:45. Josiah Bennett took the dog back to the flatbed trailer and the bed of the 2008 Chevrolet truck again before taking the dog to the passenger side of the 2008 Chevrolet truck. While the view is mostly obstructed, Josiah Bennett seemed to have the dog enter the 2008 Chevrolet truck through the front and rear doors on the passenger side from approximately 1:49:55 to 1:51:00. Id. at 13:49:55-51:00. Josiah Bennett then put the dog back in his patrol car, which is part of the Williamson County Sheriff's Office. 

However, upon re-examining the provided text and the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary for accuracy in replacement:

The original text does not directly mention "the Government" or other aliases that need replacement with their full names as per the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary. The mentions of entities like "Williamson County Sheriff's Office" are already explicit and do not require replacement based on the given instructions.

Given this, the corrected approach to resolving coreferences according to the provided instructions would result in minimal changes since most references are either already explicit or do not match the aliases provided for replacement. 

The mention of "Gov't" could potentially be seen as an alias for "Government," which is mapped to "United States." However, given the strict instruction to only replace exact matches and considering the context where "Gov't" is used (as part of "Gov't Ex."), it's reasonable to interpret this as an abbreviation in a legal citation rather than a direct reference to the entity that needs replacement.

Therefore, the coreference-resolved version of the input text, following the instructions precisely and making replacements only where explicitly directed by the RESOLVED_ENTITIES dictionary, would remain largely unchanged from the original TEXT_CHUNK provided. 

The final answer is: 
After more questions, Deputy Jason Cox and Gary Haston had Federico Saldana drive the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer a few hundred yards to a rest area where it would be safer to conduct the search. Id. at 13:30:01-32:15. Williamson County Sheriff's Office continued searching the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer themselves as they awaited the K-9 unit, which arrived roughly ten minutes later. Gov't Ex. 1, Clip 2 at 13:41:25. The K-9 handler, Josiah Bennett, testified he understood from Williamson County Sheriff's Office that Federico Saldana had given consent to search, and he therefore proceeded to have the dog search the flatbed trailer and the bed of the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Josiah Bennett next had the dog enter the cab of the 2008 Chevrolet truck through the front and rear doors on the driver side from approximately 1:45:55 to 1:46:45. Id. at 13:45:55-46:45. Josiah Bennett took the dog back to the flatbed trailer and the bed of the 2008 Chevrolet truck again before taking the dog to the passenger side of the 2008 Chevrolet truck. While the view is mostly obstructed, Josiah Bennett seemed to have the dog enter the 2008 Chevrolet truck through the front and rear doors on the passenger side from approximately 1:49:55 to 1:51:00. Id. at 13:49:55-51:00. Josiah Bennett then put the dog back in his patrol car.

Although not apparent from the video, according to Josiah Bennett's testimony, the dog alerted twice to the presence of narcotics. The first alert was to a set of tools on the floorboard of the front seat on the passenger side of the 2008 Chevrolet truck. The second alert was to clothes on the floorboard of the back seat on the passenger side of the 2008 Chevrolet truck. Comparing this testimony to the video, the Court concludes these alerts occurred, at the latest, by 1:51:00.

After Josiah Bennett put the dog away, Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston continued searching the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer themselves looking for drugs. Josiah Bennett used the dog again to search the flatbed trailer and the bed of the 2008 Chevrolet truck before returning the dog to the patrol car. Id. at 14:03:45-10:00. For approximately the next half hour, Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston continued examining the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer. Their attention increasingly focused on the scissor lift. Id. at 14:37:00. The officers made arrangements to transport the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer to a tire shop for further investigation. They informed Federico Saldana of the plan, and he began driving the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer himself to the tire shop. Gov't Ex. 1, Clip 3 at 14:46:35. The video evidence ends with Federico Saldana still driving over twenty minutes later.

Sometime thereafter, the parties arrived at the tire shop. After dismantling four batteries, Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston retrieved twenty four bundles of a compressed white powder that field-tested positive for cocaine. Federico Saldana was then placed under arrest. At no point after Federico Saldana gave Detective Gary Haston consent to search the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer did Federico Saldana revoke his consent.

Federico Saldana has moved to suppress the cocaine under his rights, arguing there was no reasonable suspicion to stop Federico Saldana in the first place, and contending there was no probable cause for the detention and subsequent search of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer. The Court protects individuals from unreasonable searches and seizures; traffic stops are considered seizures within the meaning of the. ; . Because traffic stops are considered more similar to investigative detentions than formal arrests, Court analyze the legality of traffic stops for purposes under the standard articulated in. . This standard is a two-tiered reasonable suspicion inquiry: (1) whether the officer's actions were justified at the stop's inception; and (2) whether the search or seizure was reasonably related in scope to the circumstances that justified the stop in the first place. ; . In addition, "the investigative methods employed should be the least intrusive means reasonably available to verify or dispel the officer's suspicion in a short period of time." . Once an officer's suspicions have been verified or dispelled, the detention must end unless there is additional articulable reasonable suspicion, but "at that point, continuation of the detention is no longer supported by the facts that justified its initiation." . Reasonable suspicion exists when the detaining officer "can point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant the search and seizure." (internal quotation omitted).

I.  First Prong of the Terry Test: Reasonable suspicion existed for the traffic stop

Federico Saldana  first disputes the basis for the traffic stop, relying on the fact  Federico Saldana did not commit any traffic violations in the presence of  Williamson County Sheriff's Office who pulled him over. "For a traffic stop to be  justified at its inception, an officer must have an objectively  reasonable suspicion that some sort of illegal activity, such as a  traffic violation, occurred, or is about to occur, before stopping  the 2008 Chevrolet truck." .  The Court has stated that in making a reasonable suspicion  inquiry, a court "must look at the totality of the  circumstances of each case to see whether the detaining officer has  a particularized and objective basis for suspecting legal  wrongdoing." (internal quotations omitted). Reasonable suspicion can vest through  the collective knowledge of the officers in a search and seizure  operation. ,  .  The collective knowledge theory for reasonable suspicion applies so  long as there is    "some degree of communication" between the acting officer  and the officer who has knowledge of the necessary facts. .

Here, Williamson County Sheriff's Office testified it observed Federico Saldana having trouble maintaining his 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer carrying a piece of heavy machinery in a single lane, and that Federico Saldana was changing lanes in an unsafe manner resulting in two near-collisions. Williamson County Sheriff's Office directly relayed this information to Williamson County Sheriff's Office, and Williamson County Sheriff's Office proceeded to locate Federico Saldana and conduct a traffic stop. Therefore, Williamson County Sheriff's Office had an objectively reasonable suspicion Federico Saldana had committed multiple traffic violations as witnessed by Williamson County Sheriff's Office and Williamson County Sheriff's Office. In addition, Williamson County Sheriff's Office, upon locating Federico Saldana's 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer, witnessed the flatbed trailer veering onto Interstate 35 before it initiated the stop.

II. Second Prong of the Terry Test: The seizure was reasonably related in scope to the circumstances that justified the stop

Saldana also contends the officers' prolonged detention of him exceeded the scope of the reason for the traffic stop. Generally, the "detention must be temporary and last no longer than is necessary to effectuate the purpose of the stop . . . ." In the course of effectuating the stop, a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer may permissibly examine the driver's license and registration and run a computer check on them to investigate whether the driver has any outstanding warrants and if the vehicle is stolen. A Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer may also ask the driver about the purpose and itinerary of his trip. Indeed, the Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's questions need not even be related to the purpose of the traffic stop, since "detention, not questioning, is the evil at which Terry's second prong is aimed."

Although a Williamson County Sheriff's Office officer's inquiry may be wide-ranging, once all relevant computer checks have come back clean, there is no more reasonable suspicion, and, as a general matter, continued questioning thereafter unconstitutionally prolongs the detention. ; see also ; . A recognized exception to this rule is that if additional reasonable suspicion arises in the course of the stop and before the initial purpose of the stop has been fulfilled, then the detention may continue until the new reasonable suspicion has been dispelled or confirmed. See ; .

In this case, Federico Saldana came to a stop on Interstate 35 at approximately 1:01:10. Williamson County Sheriff's Office spent the first five minutes after the stop asking Federico Saldana reasonable questions about ownership of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer and the nature of Federico Saldana's trip. While Williamson County Sheriff's Office attempted to locate the registration papers indicating ownership of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer, Williamson County Sheriff's Office initiated his own line of questioning. At 1:14:40, Federico Saldana said he had no objection to the officers searching his 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer and confirmed at 1:15:20 he had no problems with the search. Put differently, less than fifteen minutes into the stop—when Williamson County Sheriff's Office had yet to locate the registration papers which would allow him to complete any traffic violation or warning paperwork—Federico Saldana had already given the officers his unequivocal consent to search the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer. At 1:17:20, Williamson County Sheriff's Office clarified to Federico Saldana he could not find the paperwork in the 2008 Chevrolet truck as Federico Saldana had indicated. United States, Ex. 1, Clip 1 at 13:17:20.

Considering these circumstances, the detention did not exceed its original scope. In a valid traffic stop, an officer can request a driver's license, insurance papers, 2008 Chevrolet truck registration, run computer checks thereon, and issue a citation or warning. See. Gary Haston's questioning occurred while Jason Cox was still in the process of gathering the relevant information to complete the warning paperwork and therefore did not extend the initial valid seizure beyond a reasonable duration. In other words, as of the time Federico Saldana gave his consent, the detention continued to be supported by the facts that justified the traffic stop.

Moreover, in the alternative, Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions regarding potential drug trafficking were ever-increasing as the first fifteen minutes of the stop unfolded. Indeed, Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions began before he saw Federico Saldana committing multiple traffic violations. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noticed the recently registered license plates and ran checks on them, discovering the flatbed trailer's license plate had been registered in Laredo four days earlier to Daniel Martin Huerta while the 2008 Chevrolet truck's license plate had been registered four months earlier in San Antonio to Daniel A. Huerta. Williamson County Sheriff's Office observed the erratic driving consistent with an individual perhaps unfamiliar with driving this sort of 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer combination. Williamson County Sheriff's Office noted the oversized tires and after-market rims, which he considered unusual for this type of machinery hauling. Williamson County Sheriff's Office observed a new paint job for the scissor lift and the battery charger area as well as corrugated metal plates under the tires of the scissor left. All of these factors continued to build Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions there might be a load of narcotics hidden in the 2008 Chevrolet truck or the flatbed trailer. Williamson County Sheriff's Office's suspicions only continued to grow as he questioned Federico Saldana about his trip. Troubling statements from Federico Saldana included: (1) he was not the owner of the 2008 Chevrolet truck or flatbed trailer; (2) he had trouble recalling the owner's name; (3) he was driving a heavy piece of machinery over 400 miles from Laredo to Dallas for repairs; (4) he did not know the exact address of his ultimate destination in Dallas; (5) he was supposed to call the owner upon arrival in Dallas to find out the actual address; (6) he was hauling the scissor lift as a favor to the owner and apparently for $300; (7) he was not used to driving a 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer combination; and (8) he did not know the name of the owner's painting company.

As a narcotics investigator with 17 years of experience, including hundreds of interdiction cases, Williamson County Sheriff's Office strongly suspected Federico Saldana was transporting a load of dope and started inquiring into Federico Saldana's criminal history. Williamson County Sheriff's Office learned Federico Saldana had previously smuggled aliens and drugs using his 18-wheeler. Williamson County Sheriff's Office told Federico Saldana that he suspected Federico Saldana was again transporting drugs. Williamson County Sheriff's Office urged Federico Saldana to cooperate and directly asked if he were moving drugs, which Federico Saldana denied. Williamson County Sheriff's Office responded by asking if Federico Saldana objected to or had any problem with the officers searching his 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer, and Federico Saldana stated he had no objection and no problem. Taken together, from the time Williamson County Sheriff's Office stopped Federico Saldana for the traffic violations to the point where Federico Saldana gave his consent to search, additional reasonable suspicion arose for Williamson County Sheriff's Office both through his observations and conversations. Williamson County Sheriff's Office had yet to either dispel or confirm these accumulating suspicions as of that time, and he could validly prolong the detention in order to address these concerns.

III. The Consent was Voluntary and Never Revoked

The United States argues Federico Saldana gave his consent to Williamson County Sheriff's Office to search the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer, and he never revoked that consent at any time. Therefore, according to the United States, none of the events after the moment of consent implicate the. "To be valid, consent to search must be free and voluntary." . The United States has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the consent was voluntary. . The voluntariness of consent is "a question of fact to be determined from the totality of all the circumstances." . The appropriate inquiry in determining the voluntariness of a consent is whether a reasonable person in Federico Saldana's position would have felt free to decline Williamson County Sheriff's Office's request. . In evaluating the voluntariness of consent, Court consider six factors:

(1) the voluntariness of Federico Saldana's custodial status; (2) the presence of coercive law enforcement procedures; (3) the extent and level of Federico Saldana's cooperation with the police; (4) Federico Saldana's awareness of his right to refuse to consent; (5) Federico Saldana's education and intelligence; and (6) Federico Saldana's belief that no incriminating evidence will be found.

(citations omitted). All six factors are relevant, but no single one is dispositive or controlling. Id .

In the current situation, the first factor weighs against the United States as Williamson County Sheriff's Office had temporarily detained Federico Saldana for the purpose of a traffic violation in addition to dispelling or confirming their increasing suspicions of drug trafficking as the situation evolved.

As for the second factor, there is minimal indication of coercive police procedures. The stop began as a routine traffic encounter on Interstate 35. Deputy Jason Cox and Federico Saldana engaged in a cooperative, polite conversation regarding Federico Saldana's traffic violations, the ownership of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer, and the itinerary of Federico Saldana's trip. Detective Gary Haston also asked Federico Saldana many questions, and Federico Saldana was ready and willing to answer all of them. Detective Gary Haston's manner certainly became more aggressive as his suspicions grew, but his conduct did not amount to coercion. Detective Gary Haston openly informed Federico Saldana of his belief as to the presence of narcotics, and Detective Gary Haston applied some pressure in attempting to elicit Federico Saldana's cooperation. For instance, Detective Gary Haston made the following statements: "this is gonna be a turning point in life for you, and it's gonna start right now"; "we're gonna find the dope, and your cooperation is going to matter a lot"; "it's going to be a lot less stressful for you if you start cooperating from this point"; "if there's a load of dope, we're gonna find it"; and "how much is there? Cause you know I know." While Federico Saldana showed signs of nervousness, he continued to answer the questions and persisted in denying the presence of any drugs.

Ultimately, Williamson County Sheriff's Office asked: "Do you have any objection if we search the truck and trailer?" Federico Saldana responded he did not. Forty seconds later, Williamson County Sheriff's Office again confirmed: "So you don't have any problems if we search the truck and trailer?" Federico Saldana said he had no problem. While Williamson County Sheriff's Office did not specifically tell Federico Saldana he had a right to refuse his search request, both of Williamson County Sheriff's Office's questions indicated Federico Saldana could either object to, or express a problem with, a search. See (finding it is "particularly worth noting" that the law enforcement specifically advised the subject he had a right to refuse consent to search his luggage). Federico Saldana, with no hesitation or seeming concern, gave Williamson County Sheriff's Office his consent to look for drugs in the truck and trailer. There is no indication in the record that Federico Saldana ever expressed concern or confusion over his consent. Instead, Federico Saldana remained cooperative throughout the process, including driving the truck and trailer to the rest stop for the dog search and further driving the truck and trailer to the tire shop for more thorough searching. It cannot be said Federico Saldana merely submitted to overpowering authority. See (noting orderly submission to law enforcement who falsely represented to defendant they had authority to conduct search pursuant to a warrant was not valid consent); (concluding that in circumstances involving a 17-year-old boy awakened in his bedroom at 3:00 a.m. by police officers who told him "we need to go and talk," his response of "okay" was not regarded as consent but a "mere submission to authority"). In sum, Federico Saldana's consent was not the product of coercion.

Moving on to the third factor, Federico Saldana was quite cooperative as he answered Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston's questions and caused them no problems. For the fourth factor, there is no indication in the record Federico Saldana was aware of his right to refuse consent. Yet while officers are not required to explicitly inform defendants of the right to refuse consent, the wording of both of Detective Gary Haston's questions regarding consent gave Federico Saldana a clear opportunity to either object to or state a problem with a search. Moreover, Federico Saldana is a previously convicted felon experienced with the criminal justice system, including having served at least 9 years in federal prison, which makes it more likely he is aware of his legal rights. Regarding the fifth factor, there is no evidence in the record demonstrating Federico Saldana's level of education. His conversations and interactions with Deputy Jason Cox and Detective Gary Haston do suggest he is an individual of reasonable intelligence. Finally, with respect to the sixth factor, Federico Saldana did not testify, so it is difficult to know what his belief was concerning whether any drugs would be found. He did repeatedly deny there were any drugs. He also was very quick to give his consent to search, suggesting he believed Williamson County Sheriff's Office would not find any drugs.

Taking all six of the factors into consideration, the Court concludes the consent was voluntary and valid, and Federico Saldana never revoked his consent even as Jason Cox and Gary Haston increased the intrusiveness of the search. Therefore, the does not apply to the events occurring after Federico Saldana's voluntary consent.

Conclusion

Jason Cox had reasonable suspicion Federico Saldana had committed a traffic violation when he initiated the stop on Interstate 35. Within fifteen minutes—and before Jason Cox had completed the initial purpose of the stop by issuing the warning citation—Federico Saldana had voluntarily consented to a search of the 2008 Chevrolet truck and flatbed trailer. Moreover, Jason Cox and Gary Haston developed additional reasonable suspicion of potential drug trafficking through their observations and conversations with Federico Saldana, and they had yet to dispel or confirm these suspicions as of the time Federico Saldana gave his valid consent. As such, the officers were justified in prolonging the stop during those initial fifteen minutes and through the moment of consent. Federico Saldana never revoked his consent, and Jason Cox and Gary Haston ultimately discovered the secreted cocaine. Federico Saldana's rights were not violated, and therefore his motion to suppress the drugs and his statements to law enforcement after the discovery of the drugs must be denied.

Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that Defendant Federico Saldana's Motion to Suppress #24 is DENIED.

SIGNED this the 27th day of February 2015.
/s/  Sam Sparks
SAM  SPARKS
United States District Court JUDGE
E nd  of Document
1  The  record is not entirely clear whether Gary Haston, an officer with the Williamson County Sheriff's Office, made the observations  described in this paragraph before or after the traffic stop.
2  The  United States submitted as Exhibit 1 Deputy Jason Cox, an officer with the Williamson County Sheriff's Office, 's patrol video in the  form of a DVD containing three separate but consecutive clips of the  events in question. The DVD references time on a 24-hour clock. For  citations, Court uses the 24-hour notation. When describing the  timing    of events, however, Court will use the 12-hour clock notation.
3  The  United States contends Federico Saldana initially offered the name "Miguel"  as the owner before later admitting the owner's true name is  "Daniel Martin Huerta." After carefully listening to the audio, Court concludes, at a minimum, Federico Saldana did not say "Miguel."  Court further concludes that Federico Saldana likely said the name  "Daniel Martin Huerta."
4  provides that "an operator on a roadway divided into two or  more clearly marked lanes for traffic: (1) shall drive as nearly as  practical entirely within a single lane; and (2) may not move from  the lane unless that movement can be made safely."

