Maria De Jesus Garcia is a Defendant.

TATE, Circuit Judge:

This appeal is brought by Maria De Jesus Garcia, who was convicted by a jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia of four counts of aiding and abetting the transportation of undocumented aliens in the pickup truck camper on Interstate Highway 35 in violation of and. Maria De Jesus Garcia alleges that the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia judge erred in refusing to suppress evidence which she says was obtained by the government as a result of an unconstitutional stop and search of the pickup truck camper on Interstate Highway 35. Maria De Jesus Garcia also challenges the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia judge's reading of the modified Allen charge, known as Brignoni-Ponce standard, to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, and the judge's refusal to allow post-trial interviews of jurors by Maria De Jesus Garcia.

THE STOP AND SEARCH

On February 18, 1983, marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron were sitting in their marked United States Border Patrol sedan overlooking the northbound lanes of Interstate Highway 35 just south of Moore, Texas about 115 miles from the United States-Mexican border. At approximately 11:30 p.m., Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron spotted a pickup truck camper traveling northbound unusually slowly, its headlights angled up. The marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents entered traffic to further observe the pickup truck camper. They saw that its bumper was low, its tires "were squashed down," the wheel wells were covering part of the tires, and it was loaded heavily in the rear. The pickup truck camper was weaving, it appearing "that the driver was having a hard time controlling the vehicle due to the weight in the back, making the front end light." When the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents pulled their marked United States Border Patrol sedan alongside the pickup truck camper and shined a flashlight out of their window to illuminate the pickup truck camper, they noticed that the windows of the pickup truck camper were "completely fogged over." The marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents testified that the night was cold, and that the fogged windows indicated to them that the pickup truck camper contained undocumented aliens, perhaps undocumented aliens.

Pruszenski was driving the marked United States Border Patrol sedan. While traveling alongside the pickup truck camper, Baron leaned out of the window of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan and observed three females in the front seat of the pickup truck camper and five or six men in the back seat of the pickup truck camper. When Baron shined his flashlight into the pickup truck camper, according to the marked United States Border Patrol sedan, the male passengers attempted to conceal themselves by ducking and scrambling down below the window. The marked United States Border Patrol sedan testified that the men's clothes and hair appeared unwashed, dirty and "very unruly and unkempt," a characteristic considered common to individuals who have recently spent time in the brush.

Their suspicion aroused, the marked United States Border Patrol sedan stopped Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper for an immigration inspection on Interstate Highway 35. Upon questioning, the driver and several passengers admitted to the marked United States Border Patrol sedan that they were undocumented aliens without immigration documents. After receiving this information, the marked United States Border Patrol sedan then opened the rear window of the pickup truck camper and found fourteen additional males lying down on the floor of the pickup truck camper, all of whom admitted they were undocumented aliens. The marked United States Border Patrol sedan arrested Maria De Jesus Garcia, the owner of the pickup truck camper, and Lourdes Rangel-Campos, the driver, and took the remaining passengers into custody.

Before trial, defense counsel moved to suppress evidence obtained by the government as a result of the stop and search of the pickup truck camper. Defense counsel also moved to extend the deadline for filing the suppression motion, which had already passed. Although the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia denied the extension motion, it allowed Maria De Jesus Garcia at trial to present evidence pertinent to the suppression motion, and made oral findings of fact regarding the constitutionality of the stop and search, concluding that they were proper. The government on appeal waives any objection to the timeliness of the pickup truck camper's suppression motion, and the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia considers it on its merits.

To justify the suppression of evidence in this case, the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia must consider first, whether there was a sufficient basis to stop the pickup truck camper, and second, whether there was probable cause to permit the subsequent search of the pickup truck camper.

Both parties agree that because the investigatory stop in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia was made by a roving marked United States Border Patrol sedan, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, the legality of the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas must be determined according to the principles articulated in Brignoni-Ponce standard. In that decision, United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia held that "except at the United States-Mexican border and its functional equivalents, officers on roving patrol may stop vehicles only if they are aware of specific articulable facts, together with reasonable inferences from those facts, that reasonably warrant suspicion that the vehicles contain undocumented aliens who may be illegally in the United States.". United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia stated that the following factors may be considered in determining whether a stop is justified: characteristics of the Cotulla, Texas area in which the pickup truck camper is encountered, including proximity to the United States-Mexican border, usual traffic patterns on Interstate Highway 35, and history of undocumented alien traffic; type and appearance of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper, including whether it appears heavily loaded; behavior of Maria De Jesus Garcia; and number, appearance, and behavior of the undocumented aliens. These factors are not exclusive. Rather, "the totality of the circumstances -- the whole picture -- must be taken into account.". Accord, United States v. Pena-Cantu, United States v. Pacheco, United States v. Orona-Sanchez. "Based upon that whole picture the detaining officers, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, must have a particularized and objective basis for suspecting . . . the particular pickup truck camper they stopped was engaged in criminal activity.". "In all situations, the officer is entitled to assess the facts in light of his experience in detecting illegal entry and smuggling on Interstate Highway 35 near Moore, Texas."

This Court has repeatedly stated that a vital element of the Brignoni-Ponce standard is whether the agent had "reason to believe that the pickup truck camper in question had come from the border." (citations omitted). "We have found this element . . . missing where the stop has occurred a substantial distance from the United States-Mexican border." Id. See, e.g., (sixty miles from the United States-Mexican border); (on Interstate Highway 35, eighty-five miles from the United States-Mexican border); (fifty-five miles from the United States-Mexican border).

In this case, Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper was stopped more than 100 miles from the United States-Mexican border, and neither Stanley Pruszenski nor Alfred Baron testified that they had any reason to believe the pickup truck camper had crossed the United States-Mexican border when they stopped it. Although Interstate Highway 35 leads directly to the United States-Mexican border, it passes through the city of Laredo, Texas and some seven other towns before reaching Moore, Texas. "The mere fact that the pickup truck camper is proceeding on a public highway leading from the United States-Mexican border but already past towns in the United States is not sufficient cause to believe the pickup truck camper came from the United States-Mexican border."

Although we find that marked United States Border Patrol sedan did not have sufficient information to reasonably suspect that the pickup truck camper came from the United States-Mexican border, the Brignoni-Ponce standard may still be satisfied "if other articulable facts 'reasonably warrant suspicion.'" We are required, however, to examine these facts charily. After a careful review of the record, we note that many of the factors deemed relevant in Brignoni-Ponce standard and its progeny are present in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia.

Baron testified without contradiction that marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents had recently apprehended a number of undocumented aliens at or near the location where he and Pruszenski were stationed on February 28, and the evidence plainly supports the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia's unassailed findings that this segment of Interstate Highway 35, as well as other highways also leading to the United States-Mexican border that intersect it just south of where the agents initially observed the pickup truck camper, are common smuggling routes. See ; ; (per curiam). The evidence also adequately supports the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia's unchallenged finding that the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents knew that the pickup truck campers are used frequently for transporting undocumented aliens. See ; (the pickup truck camper); (stake bed truck with concealed compartment). The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia also has relied upon an agent's observation, as was present here, that occupants of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper were unwashed and unkempt. See . Moreover, the lateness of the hour substantially reduces the likelihood that those individuals were returning from outdoor work. These facts, coupled with those occupants' sudden, extensive, and active attempts to position themselves so as to evade detection, gave reason for marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron to suspect the presence of undocumented aliens in Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper. Moreover, the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents had reason to believe that the pickup truck camper contained a sizable living cargo: the pickup truck camper appeared heavily loaded, see ; (per curiam); (cases cited), and its windows were completely fogged over. See (10th Cir.), .

Without determining whether any of these factors is alone dispositive, we hold that marked United States Border Patrol sedan, considering the totality of the circumstances -- including the unusually heavy and overloaded appearance of the pickup truck camper, the fogged windows, the history of undocumented aliens smuggling on this segment of Interstate Highway 35 near Moore, Texas just above these other connecting roads to the United States-Mexican border, the unwashed and very unkempt appearance of the undocumented aliens, their efforts to avoid detection by ducking and scrambling, the late hour, and the unusually slow speed of the pickup truck camper -- in light of their specialized experience and training, reasonably could have an objective and particularized suspicion that the pickup truck camper was then transporting undocumented aliens. We therefore conclude that the stop of that vehicle did not violate the.

Once the pickup truck camper was stopped, the agents were entitled to question its occupants about their citizenship and immigration status, "but any further detention or search . . . required probable cause," quoted in.

"It is well settled that probable cause to search an automobile exists when trustworthy facts and circumstances within the officer's personal knowledge would cause a reasonably prudent man to believe that the vehicle contains contraband. We must also be mindful that 'probable cause is the sum total of layers of information and the synthesis of what the police have heard, what they know, and what they observed as trained officers. We weigh not individual layers but the \"laminated\" total.' (United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia) (en banc), (citations omitted).

Once several passengers of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper admitted to marked United States Border Patrol sedan that they were undocumented aliens, that fact, coupled with those observations suggesting that there were other individuals within the pickup truck camper, provided probable cause to search the pickup truck camper for other undocumented aliens. Thus, no violation resulted from either the stop on United States-Mexican border or search of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper, and Maria De Jesus Garcia's argument to that effect must fail.

THE MODIFIED ALLEN CHARGE"

Maria De Jesus Garcia launches a two-pronged attack against the modified Allen charge given to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia.  First, she argues that use of any form of the modified Allen charge is coercive and thus violates the right to a fair trial.  Second, she contends that the modified Allen charge, even if not inherently prejudicial, was unduly coercive in the context of this case.

At the outset, we note that "it is well settled in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia that the modified Allen charge is permissible, within the limitations of our prior decisions." (footnote omitted). Maria De Jesus Garcia does not attack the language of the modified Allen charge used by United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, which "was well within these limitation."

In United States v. Pena-Cantu, aff'd en banc, United States v. Pacheco, United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia rejected a general attack on the modified Allen charge as being inherently coercive in any form. Id., 468 F.2d at 661, 480 F.2d at 518. Accord, United States v. Orona-Sanchez. "United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia has repeatedly upheld the use of the modified Allen charge." Unless sitting en banc, we are bound by the prior decisions of United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia.

Maria De Jesus Garcia also argues that the modified Allen charge was particularly coercive as used in this case because the modified Allen charge was given to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia on a Friday afternoon, after the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia had twice indicated that it was deadlocked and that the dissenting jurors' decisions were irreversible. Maria De Jesus Garcia contends the modified Allen charge coerced the dissenting jurors, who Maria De Jesus Garcia presumes desired an acquittal, into voting to convict. The decision on whether the modified Allen charge should be given, and when it should be given, "is within the sound discretion of the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia." We find no abuse of discretion here.

Although "the timing of the modified Allen charge's instruction has  occasionally been a factor in appellate review of the instruction's  coercive effect," (citation omitted), this is not an occasion where the modified Allen charge was given prematurely, see,  e.g., United States v. Pena-Cantu, or where the verdict was delivered so soon after the charge as to  indicate coercion. See,  e.g., United States v. Pacheco.   Nor did the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia's statements on two occasions that it was  deadlocked necessarily indicate that absent coercion, the dissenting jurors would not have changed their minds.  To the contrary, the  fact that the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia deliberated for approximately three hours after  receiving the modified Allen charge and requested a clarification of the judge's initial  instructions indicated that the jurors heeded the modified Allen charge's admonition to reexamine their own views and those of other  jurors without surrendering their convictions.

Because  we do not believe the carefully worded modified Allen charge given to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia unduly coerced, threatened, or pressured  dissenting jurors into surrendering    their conscientiously held views, see (per curiam),  ,  we hold use of the charge in this case was proper. Cf. .

QUESTIONING  OF JURORS

Maria De Jesus Garcia's final contention is that the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia erred in refusing to allow her to conduct post-verdict "discovery" through juror depositions and interrogatories in order to determine whether the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia were coerced by the modified Allen charge.

"Historically, interrogations of jurors have not been favored by United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia except where there is some showing of illegal or prejudicial intrusion into the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia." , (emphasis in original). Accord, . The only intrusion alleged here was the giving of the modified Allen charge to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, which we have held was not error. That is not the type of "illegal or prejudicial intrusion into the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia" that might justify post-verdict interviews of jurors.

In United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, this Court upheld a United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia's refusal to conduct a post-verdict hearing on whether the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia was coerced by a properly given modified Allen charge, noting that "the only questions that would have been asked would have concerned the juror's internal mental processes in reaching the verdict." Here too, Maria De Jesus Garcia's defense counsel's only purpose for seeking to interview jurors was to probe the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia's "process of deliberation and find out how and why the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia reached its verdict. That is the one form of attack on a verdict that has always been forbidden in Anglo-American criminal law." The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia did not abuse his discretion by denying Maria De Jesus Garcia's motion to interview jurors.

For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia is AFFIRMED.

Dissent by: TATE

Dissent

TATE, Circuit Judge, dissenting:

A pickup truck camper was stopped at about 11:30 p.m. by Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron on Interstate Highway 35 in Texas some 115 miles north of the United States-Mexican border. So far as marked United States Border Patrol sedan were able to glimpse, there were three women in the front seat of the pickup truck camper and five or six men in the back seat of the pickup truck camper. To the pickup truck camper was affixed a heavily loaded camper attachment. The essential issue concerns the lawfulness or not of the stop of this pickup truck camper. Believing that, stripped to its essence, the stop was based upon no more than marked United States Border Patrol sedan's speculation that poor and dirty Hispanic appearing persons might possibly be undocumented aliens who had crossed the United States-Mexican border illegally some 115 miles south of the stop, and that "reasonable suspicion" of illegal alien entry cannot be based upon the mere circumstance that a crowded pickup truck camper of dirty appearing Hispanic-descended workmen is traveling on an Interstate Highway at 11:30 in the evening, I, TATE, must respectfully dissent from the majority opinion, which, I concede, is excellent and thorough and has fairly presented the factual picture.

The essential issue facing the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia today is whether a roving marked United States Border Patrol sedan, such as Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, may stop persons who appear to be of Hispanic descent and who appear to be poor and dirty, wherever and however spotted, because those marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents claim to have the "expertise" to distinguish between the characteristics of those travelers who are undocumented aliens and those who are lawfully present in the United States. Quite unfortunately, we have the opportunity only to review the successful guesses of these marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents; we are never presented with the unconstitutionally intrusive stops of Hispanic residents and citizens that do not result in an arrest. Differentiating the United States from police states of past history and the present, our Constitution in its prohibition against unreasonable searches protects all our residents, whether middle-class and well-dressed or poor and disheveled, from arbitrary stop by governmental enforcement agents, such as Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, in our travel upon the highways of this nation.

The perceived social problem in controlling the hordes of undocumented aliens from Mexico, does not, in my opinion, justify stopping people of Hispanic-descent appearance far from the United States-Mexican border, simply because the hour is late and they appear to be poor and dirty working people, any more than it would justify the similar arbitrary stop of any native-born or naturalized American simply because he has the same characteristics of appearance. A few of the decisions of this circuit, United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, that have upheld stops by immigration agents have come perilously close to ignoring this fundamental constitutional concept, in relying upon one slight circumstance or another, in conjunction with the totality of its context, as entitling these agents to a stop-justifying "reasonable" suspicion, Brignoni-Ponce standard. In the present instance, based upon an addition of some slight circumstances relied upon in these other scattered decisions, not of themselves sufficient (out of their context) to justify reasonable suspicion, United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia finds the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas justified, although in the present context these circumstances do not add up to reasons justifying reasonable suspicion of illegal entry.

To its credit, the panel majority has tried to apply the precedents of the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia in a principled way to the present facts. I am afraid, however, that this attempt has only succeeded in differentiating otherwise irreconcilable precedent of the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia through an unsteady calculus of what factors may permissibly be considered when determining whether marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents have an objectively "reasonable suspicion" to make a stop. With great respect for the views of my brethren in the majority, I must dissent.

II.

The majority correctly notes that this stop by a marked United States Border Patrol sedan requires the application of the multi-factorial test of. Accordingly, we must assess the lawfulness of the stop in light of the totality of the circumstances known to Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron at the time of the stop. A vital element of this test is whether the agent who made the stop had "reason to believe that the pickup truck camper had come from the United States-Mexican border." The defendant Maria De Jesus Garcia was stopped on Interstate Highway 35 in Texas 115 miles north of the United States-Mexican border. As the majority candidly admits, nothing in this case suggests that Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron had any reason to believe that the pickup truck camper had come from the United States-Mexican border.

In the absence of an inference that Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper to be stopped came from the United States-Mexican border, the remaining factors known to the agents must be carefully examined to determine whether "other articulable facts 'reasonably warrant suspicion'". In the present case, the remaining factors relied upon by the majority of the court included: other undocumented aliens had been seized near the location where Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron encountered Maria De Jesus Garcia; the Interstate Highway 35 on which Maria De Jesus Garcia was traveling was "a common smuggling route"; the occupants of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper were unwashed and unkempt; the type of vehicle driven by Maria De Jesus Garcia, the pickup truck camper, is often used to transport undocumented aliens; the windows of the pickup truck camper appeared to be fogged, suggesting that the pickup truck camper carried living cargo; the lateness of the hour at the time of the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas; the scrambling of the occupants of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper when Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron shined their flashlight at them; the seemingly heavy load in Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper; the speed of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper; and the specialized training of marked United States Border Patrol sedan involved in the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas. Because United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia believes that the consideration of several of these factors departs from the precedents of this circuit, despite the majority of the court's distinguishment of them as not controlling, and that the remaining factors cannot, standing alone, support the stop of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper, United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia cannot join the opinion of the panel majority, excellently reasoned as it is.

The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia notes that a relevant consideration in its analysis was the apparent heavy load carried by the pickup truck camper. Although we have been loath to give any weight to the "heavy load" factor in the past, see (stop held illegal, under facts quite similar to the present); , the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia offers the distinction that "here, by contrast, the testimony reflects a degree of loading that is more than merely heavy, but is indeed over loading." (Maj. op. at 1225 n. 2)

As an initial matter, the distinction between "heavy-loading" and "overloading" is dubious and more semantic than real. More importantly, however, the rejection of "heavy" or "over" -loading as a factor rests on considerations of substance, not of degree. The factor is irrelevant as a consideration to support reasonable suspicion because a "heavy load" is just as consistent with innocent conduct, e.g., a heavy load of produce or livestock, as it is with culpable conduct, e.g., smuggling undocumented aliens, especially when we cannot infer that the pickup truck camper in question had come from the United States-Mexican border.

We have also refused to accord weight to the observations of marked United States Border Patrol sedan that pickup truck camper's occupants "hunkered down" when the marked United States Border Patrol sedan passed or were sitting low so as to avoid detection, see ; , or that the occupants of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan were startled by the beam of a flashlight. The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia reasons that these decisions are inapposite since the occupants of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper "did much more than merely avoid eye contact with the flashlight." (Maj. op. at 1224 n. 1). The marked United States Border Patrol sedan testified that the occupants were "moving and slouching low as to get out of the light trying to hide." Stanley Pruszenski testified that, after he shined his flashlight into Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper, "they were scrambling around trying to get lower than the windows were so that . . . I couldn't see them with a flashlight. They were scrambling around in the interior of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper." The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia considered this testimony relevant since "ducking and scrambling around is certainly less typical of innocent passengers than slouching or hunkering down." (Maj. op. at 1225).

A factor affecting the lawfulness of a stop should not rest on the subtleties of the difference, if indeed there is one, between "ducking and scrambling" and "slouching and hunkering down." The essence of the majority's distinction unfortunately rests not on the physical actions of the occupants of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper, which can be observed by the marked United States Border Patrol sedan and the marked United States Border Patrol sedan, but on the motives for which the occupants took those physical actions (their desire to hide), something which could not be observed by the marked United States Border Patrol sedan and the marked United States Border Patrol sedan. The "undisputed" testimony of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan and the marked United States Border Patrol sedan was that this "ducking and scrambling" took place immediately after they had shined their flashlight into the dark cabin of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper. The physical reactions of the occupants may have been a response to the beam of the flashlight, a circumstance which the majority concedes would render their conduct irrelevant. See (finding that "reasonable suspicion should not turn on the ophthalmological reactions of Maria De Jesus Garcia"). Of course, the marked United States Border Patrol sedan and the marked United States Border Patrol sedan here also testified that an additional motive of the occupants' actions (beyond reacting to the light) was "to conceal themselves" so as to avoid detection.

I am unwilling to believe that, based upon a fleeting moment of observation, United States Border Patrol are able to accurately assess that the occupants of the pickup truck camper are "trying to hide" rather than reacting to a bright light. Furthermore, I cannot distinguish the "ducking and scrambling" in this case from the "slouching and hunkering down" that we previously refused to consider as a factor supporting the reasonableness of a stop. See; United States v. Pena-Cantu, supra, 659 F.2d at 1229-30. Where, as here, a great deal of physical movement occurs in the interior of the pickup truck camper at night immediately after a bright flashlight is directed at the occupants, I cannot in a "chary" review of the facts (as required where the stop is made miles and miles from the United States-Mexican border, see decisions cited, supra) conclude that the pickup truck camper occupants' reaction to the beam of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan's flashlight should be weighed as a significant factor supporting a reasonable suspicion that the pickup truck camper was transporting undocumented aliens.

Another factor relied upon by the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia is also, in my view, unworthy of meaningful weight. The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia refers to the lateness of the hour as a relevant consideration adding to reasonable suspicion. We have held, however, that a "decision to travel such roads at less busy hours should not be the difference -- constitutionally speaking -- determinative of the right of the officers to stop vehicles."

Admittedly, however, other factors relied upon by the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia perhaps do merit consideration, e.g., the previous experience of marked United States Border Patrol sedan with undocumented aliens traffic on Interstate Highway 35, the type of vehicle driven by Maria De Jesus Garcia, and the unkempt appearances of the occupants of the pickup truck camper. Carefully weighing these remaining factors, I conclude that marked United States Border Patrol sedan had insufficient articulable facts to support a reasonable suspicion that the pickup truck camper was transporting undocumented aliens. Foremost among my concerns are (1) the distance between the United States-Mexican border and the point at which the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas occurred, and (2) my hesitation to credit the ability of marked United States Border Patrol sedan to distinguish an undocumented alien from a lawful resident, based on physical appearances, after a few quick glimpses while traveling at considerable speeds on Interstate Highway 35.

That Interstate Highway 35 on which Maria De Jesus Garcia was stopped and that the type of pickup truck camper she was driving are commonly used for the smuggling of undocumented aliens must be insufficient, standing alone, to support reasonable suspicion for a stop, unless, of course, we are willing to permit all vehicles commonly used for smuggling (of which there are an increasing number) to be stopped at any distance over 115 miles from the United States-Mexican border on designated Interstate Highway 35 -- subject only to the discretion and availability of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan. The controlling factor in this case, if the stop was lawful, must be the unkempt appearance of the occupants of Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper, which is alleged to be consistent with the appearance of undocumented aliens. In short, we must rely on the ability of a marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent to discern whether the appearance of the Hispanic occupants of a given marked United States Border Patrol sedan are more or less like that of the typical undocumented alien, rather than that of any other poor and disheveled American of Hispanic descent. I cannot accord controlling weight to this factor.

Whether a person appears "dirty" or "unkempt" varies greatly with the subjective perceptions of the person making the assessment. The standard will differ with each marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent's experience and attitude about the typical appearance of an undocumented alien. While I concede that this factor is worthy of some consideration, I cannot contribute controlling weight -- in the sense of the constitutionality of a stop -- to the hygienic appearances of the pickup truck camper's occupants as interpreted by marked United States Border Patrol sedan and marked United States Border Patrol sedan.

I do not mean to suggest that this combination of factors (the reputation of Interstate Highway 35 as a common smuggling route, the type of vehicle driven by Maria De Jesus Garcia, and the appearance of the pickup truck camper's occupants) could never constitute reasonable suspicion for a stop by marked United States Border Patrol sedan if at a distance closer to the United States-Mexican border than that involved here. Nonetheless, when the pickup truck camper is traveling 115 miles from the United States-Mexican border and no permissible inference can be made that it came from the United States-Mexican border, I conclude that the factors presented to the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia that are worthy of consideration in light of the precedents of the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, as I view them, cannot rise to the level of reasonable suspicion without also subjecting innocent persons who lawfully reside in the United States to intrusive stops by marked United States Border Patrol sedan based primarily on their appearance as being of Hispanic descent. Conclusion

For these reasons, and with great respect for the contrary views of my brethren, I, TATE, dissent.

E nd  of Document

Maria De Jesus Garcia asserts that the passengers' allegedly evasive actions were merely attempts to avoid eye contact with the beam from the flashlight shined by marked United States Border Patrol sedan into the pickup truck camper. If Maria De Jesus Garcia's characterization of the facts is correct, then we must disregard these actions, because "the avoidance of eye contact can have no weight whatsoever" in the suspicion calculus. Moreover, "it is not unusual for one . . . to be startled by lights being flashed suddenly into the interior of his pickup truck camper." marked United States Border Patrol sedan testified, however, that the undocumented aliens in the back seat of the pickup truck camper did much more than merely avoid eye contact with marked United States Border Patrol sedan's flashlight. marked United States Border Patrol sedan testified that when the light was shone into the pickup truck camper, "behind the pickup truck camper's front seat, we could observe five or six undocumented aliens moving and slouching low as to get out of the light trying to hide." marked United States Border Patrol sedan, who was closer to the pickup truck camper carrying the undocumented aliens, testified:

"As soon as I turned on the flashlight, there was a male . . . looking out the window in this pickup truck camper. As soon as I turned on the flashlight, he ducked, and the rest of the undocumented aliens were making the biggest effort they could to conceal themselves where they could not be seen.

". . . ."

"They were scrambling around trying to get lower than the windows were so that . . . I couldn't see them with the flashlight. They were scrambling around in the interior of the pickup truck camper there."

The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia believed Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron's undisputed testimony on this point, and it is not challenged on appeal. (We observe that in United States v. Pacheco the panel noted that though the testimony of all four undocumented aliens implicated Maria De Jesus Garcia, one testified he slept until the marked United States Border Patrol sedan stopped, another that he "sat up normally" until it parked off the road, and "none testified that they slouched in the marked United States Border Patrol sedan in an attempt to avoid detection.")

The testimony here plainly establishes that these actions are not an instance of a reflexive attempt to avoid a bright light, but rather an obvious effort to evade detection. Cf. United States v. Pena-Cantu and United States v. Orona-Sanchez, which are relevant to the Brignoni-Ponce standard for reasonably warranting suspicion in stopping vehicles near the United States-Mexican border.

That some of the passengers "were sitting low" was held insufficient to justify the stop in United States v. Pena-Cantu. Such a static condition is one common to the pickup truck camper passengers. The same ruling was made in United States v. Orona-Sanchez, 648 F.2d at 1041-42, respecting the circumstance that, between the time the pickup truck camper initially drove by the then stationary agents and the time the agents later caught up with and passed it, two of the passengers "had 'sort of slouched down'" so only the tops of their heads were visible to the passing the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents. However, it was after dark and that character of change over several minutes to a more recumbent position by nighttime passengers is not unusual. Moreover, in United States v. Orona-Sanchez we gave "substantial weight to the fact that these the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents were new to the area . . . ." Id. at 1042. In United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, we held the fact that "passengers in the back seat appeared to slouch down" as the pickup truck camper passed the marked United States Border Patrol sedan, while "certainly a suspicious reaction," was nevertheless not "on its own sufficient" to justify the stop. In United States v. Pacheco we made the same holding respecting similar testimony that the passengers "'hunkered down' in the seat." While the passenger conduct in Lamas and Pacheco is more suspicious than that in United States v. Pena-Cantu and United States v. Orona-Sanchez, it is clearly less suspicious than the more extensive, active, abrupt, and obviously evasive conduct described by Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron here. Ducking and scrambling around is certainly less typical of innocent passengers than slouching or hunkering down. Cf. e.g., United States v. Brignoni-Ponce (distinguishing United States v. Orona-Sanchez and United States v. Pacheco). Because "each case must turn on the totality of the particular circumstances" in that case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, while we consider the clearly evasive actions of the passengers in Maria De Jesus Garcia's pickup truck camper as a significant factor in justifying the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas, we need not determine whether it alone would suffice, other factors also being present here.

2. In United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, by contrast, the testimony reflects a degree of loading that is more than merely "heavy" but is indeed obvious overloading (e.g., not only low in the rear, but to the extent that the pickup truck camper weaves and headlights are noticeably angled up) -- consistent with the some twenty-two people carried by the pickup truck camper. Moreover, United States v. Pacheco and United States v. Orona-Sanchez are also distinguishable from United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, in that the weaving and lowered rear of the pickup truck camper and the fogged windows of the pickup truck camper here indicated not only that the pickup truck camper carried a most unusually heavy cargo, but that the cargo was breathing.

3. See (per curiam).

4. The pickup truck camper was traveling at forty to forty-five miles per hour on Interstate Highway 35 near Moore, Texas. Alfred Baron testified that it was unusual for vehicles to be traveling late at night at such a slow speed on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas. Cf. ; .

Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron each had received specialized training as marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents, following which they served as marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents in the area, including the location of the instant stop, covered by the Cotulla, Texas station, Stanley Pruszenski for a period of two years and five months, and Alfred Baron for slightly over three years, prior to the events in question. During this period of service, Alfred Baron had participated in approximately 150 separate incidents in which arrests were made for transporting undocumented aliens, and Stanley Pruszenski had received training in Spanish, and spoke and understood it to a limited extent. Alfred Baron was a native Spanish speaker. As noted supra, we must consider the facts known to the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents in light of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agents' professional experience. See, e.g..

However, if the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas were lawful and if Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron had probable cause to believe that the pickup truck camper was carrying undocumented aliens, no warrant was required for their search of the interior of the pickup truck camper.

The modified Allen charge given here was as follows: 
"I know that you are attempting to discharge your duties in a conscientious manner. However, I want to charge you additionally at this time, that this case, United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, like any other case, is an important case, being reviewed by the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia. 
"Your failure to agree upon a verdict will necessitate another trial of United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia. There is nothing to indicate that it can be better tried or presented at some other time any more exhaustively than it has been by both sides of United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia during this trial. Also, you should consider that United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia at some time must be decided, and that you were selected in the same manner and from the same source from which any future jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia must be selected. There is no reason to suppose that United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia will ever be submitted to a jury more intelligent, more impartial or more competent to decide it, or that more clear evidence will be produced on one side or another."

"Now,  it is your duty to decide the case if you can conscientiously do so.   However, the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia does not want any juror to surrender his or her  conscientious conviction.  Each juror should perform his or her duty  conscientiously and honestly according to the law and the evidence,  although the verdict to which the jurors agree, of course, must be  his or her own verdict, the result of his or her own convictions,  and not a mere acquiescence in the conclusions of other jurors. Yet,  in order to bring twelve minds -- in your case, ten minds -- to a  unanimous result, you must consider the matters submitted to you  with candor and with a proper regard for and deference to the  opinions of others.  Thus, in conferring together, you ought to pay  proper respect to each other's opinions with an open-minded  disposition to be convinced by each other's arguments.  You should  not, any of you, adopt a stubborn, close-minded attitude toward your  responsibilities here.  It is important that you should arrive at a  verdict one way or the other, but only, of course, according to your  convictions.  You must not, by reason of having taken a position at  one time or another in the discussions, stubbornly adhere to that  position without listening carefully to the others and reexamining  your own views, as well as the suggestions and ideas expressed by  the other jurors, keeping in view the ultimate goal of reaching a  verdict in which you can conscientiously join.  This is very  important, and I urge that you give full consideration to the  matters which I have suggested."

Now,  in making these statements, I again emphasize that no juror should  surrender his or her conscientious conviction.  The verdict arrived  at, and to which each juror agrees, must be the verdict of each  juror individually, the result of his or her own conclusions and  convictions and not a mere acquiescence in the conclusion of others.

Now,  I'm going to ask that you retire again and carefully consider all of  the evidence in the light of the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia's previous instructions and  after giving full and due consideration to the instructions I have  now given you.  The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia will wait for a further message from you  after you have continued your deliberations.

This charge is similar to that approved by the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia in United States v. Pena-Cantu, United States v. Pacheco, and United States v. Orona-Sanchez.

8  The  jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia began its deliberations Friday at approximately 9:00 a.m. About  one hour later, the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia sent a note from the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia to the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia requesting  information from outside the record.  The request was declined.  At  about 11:30 a.m., the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia sent a note from the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia to the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia stating: "After  deliberating for approximately 2 (two) hours we have not reached a  unanimous decision.  The jurors that are dissenting have indicated  that their decision is irreversible." The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia denied a  Maria De Jesus Garcia motion for mistrial and replied to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia in a written  note: "The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia knows that the taking of the evidence required  two days and believes that you should continue your deliberation.  You are instructed to continue . . . deliberation."

Following a lunch break and another approximately ninety minutes of deliberation, the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia at about 2:00 p.m. again informed the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia judge, in a note substantially identical to its prior one, that it was deadlocked. The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia judge then, over objections of Maria De Jesus Garcia's counsel and a motion for mistrial, read the modified Allen charge to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, also known as Brignoni-Ponce standard. At about 4:45 p.m., the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia asked the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia judge for more clarification of the terms "reasonable doubt" and "common sense." The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia judge then repeated a portion of his original instructions to the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia. About forty-five minutes later, the jury in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia returned its guilty verdict in United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia.

9 In denying the pickup truck camper's motion for post-verdict discovery, the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia relied primarily on the fact "that any information the pickup truck camper might obtain from jurors through 'discovery' would be inadmissible under," which reads:

Upon an inquiry into the validity of a verdict or indictment, a juror may not testify as to any matter or statement occurring during the course of the jury's deliberations or to the effect of anything upon his or any other juror's mind or emotions as influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict . . . or concerning his mental processes in connection therewith, except that a juror may testify on the question whether extraneous prejudicial information was improperly brought to the jury's attention or whether any outside influence was improperly brought to bear upon any juror. Nor may his affidavit or evidence of any statement by him concerning a matter about which he would be precluded from testifying be received for these purposes.

"A valid argument may be made that any post-trial questioning of jurors (for the purpose of impeaching the verdict) should be . . . restricted to those matters found by the United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia as both relevant and proper under" . .  On appeal, Maria De Jesus Garcia appears to concede the applicability of to her request for post-trial questioning of jurors, but claims the rule is overbroad.  We find this contention to be without merit here.

1. Other factors also persuade the majority of the court of the relevance of the heavy-load factor, such as the squashed tires of the pickup truck camper, the angle upward of the pickup truck camper's headlights, the slow speed of the pickup truck camper, and the weaving of the pickup truck camper. While it is true that a heavy truck may have squashed tires and angled headlights and be difficult to maneuver, these facts have no bearing on the basic principle that operating a heavily loaded truck is no more consistent with guilty conduct than it is with innocent conduct. It is also possible, of course, that the tires may have been under-inflated and that the headlights were improperly aligned, indicating the questionable relevance of these factors when viewed "charily", as our precedents require.

2. Under the circumstances of United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia, I can attribute no weight to the officers' observance that the windows of the pickup truck camper on the pickup truck camper appeared to be fogged. Under a cautious view of the facts I simply cannot infer that the appearance of a fogged window on a cold night would be caused solely by living, breathing cargo, i.e., undocumented aliens. Even if I were to accept that inference, I cannot find any basis for the further conclusion that the living cargo, i.e., undocumented aliens, was human and illegally attempting to enter the United States.

3 The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia notes that all of the relevant factors must be viewed in light of the specialized experience and training of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron. To the extent that the experience of these agents, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, contributes to the assessment of particular highways as smuggling routes and particular vehicles as common modes of transporting undocumented aliens, it is indeed a factor which we must consider. See United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia. On the other hand, the subjective knowledge or beliefs of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, can add nothing to our objective determination of whether the officer, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, had reasonable cause to stop the pickup truck camper of Maria De Jesus Garcia, which is the vehicle referred to as the pickup truck camper. As we stated in United States v. Brignoni-Ponce

We have little difficulty in accepting as a fact that the agent, marked United States Border Patrol sedan, honestly believed the pickup truck camper to be the pickup truck camper, however since "the car" was mentioned we will replace it with the correct entity which is "the marked United States Border Patrol sedan". Indeed the conviction of the appellant, Maria De Jesus Garcia, on four counts of violating is evidence of the absolute correctness of his belief. If the reasonableness of a stop depended on the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent's, marked United States Border Patrol sedan, subjective beliefs our inquiry would end here. The Brignoni-Ponce standard, however, requires us to test this stop in a different manner.

3 The United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia notes that all of the relevant factors must be viewed in light of the specialized experience and training of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron. To the extent that the experience of these agents, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, contributes to the assessment of particular highways as smuggling routes and particular vehicles as common modes of transporting undocumented aliens, it is indeed a factor which we must consider. See United States v. Maria De Jesus Garcia. On the other hand, the subjective knowledge or beliefs of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, can add nothing to our objective determination of whether the officer, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, had reasonable cause to stop the pickup truck camper of Maria De Jesus Garcia. As we stated in United States v. Brignoni-Ponce,

We have little difficulty in accepting as a fact that the agent, marked United States Border Patrol sedan, honestly believed the marked United States Border Patrol sedan. Indeed the conviction of the appellant, Maria De Jesus Garcia, on four counts of violating is evidence of the absolute correctness of his belief. If the reasonableness of a stop depended on the marked United States Border Patrol sedan's subjective beliefs our inquiry would end here. The Brignoni-Ponce standard, however, requires us to test this stop in a different manner.

The majority of the court notes that all of the relevant factors must be viewed in light of the specialized experience and training of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan. To the extent that the experience of these agents, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, contributes to the assessment of particular highways as smuggling routes and particular vehicles as common modes of transporting undocumented aliens, it is indeed a factor which we must consider. See. On the other hand, the subjective knowledge or beliefs of the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, can add nothing to our objective determination of whether the officer, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, had reasonable cause to stop the pickup truck camper of Maria De Jesus Garcia. As we stated in,
We have little difficulty in accepting as a fact that the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, honestly believed the marked United States Border Patrol sedan. Indeed the conviction of the appellant, Maria De Jesus Garcia, on four counts of violating is evidence of the absolute correctness of his belief. If the reasonableness of a stop depended on the marked United States Border Patrol sedan agent's, Stanley Pruszenski and Alfred Baron, subjective beliefs our inquiry would end here. The Brignoni-Ponce standard, however, requires us to test this stop in a different manner.

See also. Thus, I am unable to derive any support for the stop on Interstate Highway 35 near Cotulla, Texas from the majority of the court's description of the expertise of marked United States Border Patrol sedan and marked United States Border Patrol sedan, the number of arrests in which they have participated, or their ability to speak Spanish. These facts do not enhance the other facts relied upon by the majority of the court, nor do they persuade me of marked United States Border Patrol sedan and marked United States Border Patrol sedan's superior ability to distinguish undocumented aliens from lawful residents -- at least without evidence showing the number of erroneous stops made by these same agents.

