Abdullah Yusuf is a defendant.

Andrew S. Oldham, Circuit Judge:

Abdullah Yusuf was stopped by United States Border Patrol near Laredo, Texas, while smuggling 84 illegal aliens in the flatbed trailer used for smuggling carrying 84 illegal aliens. A jury convicted him for trafficking aliens. On appeal, Abdullah Yusuf argues the jury had insufficient evidence. We disagree and affirm.

I.

On March 19, 2021, Abdullah Yusuf pulled the flatbed trailer used for smuggling north on Interstate 35. At the United States Border Patrol checkpoint near Laredo, Texas, a police dog alerted to the flatbed trailer used for smuggling. Further inspection revealed that the flatbed trailer used for smuggling carrying 84 illegal aliens carried 84 illegal aliens inside several wooden crates arranged in a rectangle and covered by a tarp. The Government charged Abdullah Yusuf with transporting illegal aliens within the United States for financial gain and conspiring to do the same.

Abdullah Yusuf waived his Miranda rights. He then told Department of Homeland Security Inspector Juan Carlos De Arcos that he was headed to Dallas and didn't know what he was hauling. Abdullah Yusuf claimed a brokerage company named "You Brokerage" paid him $2,700 to haul the load. He said he arrived at the Auburn Road lot—the Auburn Road lot in Laredo, Texas—between 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. On his telling, Abdullah Yusuf then backed the flatbed trailer used for smuggling to the area, took his tractor to the Flying J to wait while the flatbed trailer used for smuggling carrying 84 illegal aliens was being loaded, returned an hour later, hooked his tractor to the now-loaded flatbed trailer used for smuggling carrying 84 illegal aliens, received a bill of lading ("BOL"), and started for Dallas.

Juan Carlos De Arcos testified that Jamco International, Inc. owned the Auburn Road lot and used it for storing empty trailers. The Auburn Road lot had a "loose gravel" surface. The Auburn Road lot had no warehouse, loading equipment, or loading dock. A representative from Jamco International, Inc. testified that the Auburn Road lot only had one entrance, locked daily from 9:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.

Agent Juan Carlos De Arcos also testified that his investigation into "You Brokerage" revealed no record of the company's existence. The phone number Abdullah Yusuf provided for "You Brokerage" didn't work. Agent Juan Carlos De Arcos could not find a logbook in the flatbed trailer used for smuggling. He did, however, find the BOL for the load in question. It identified United States Trucking—not Abdullah Yusuf's company, Steel on Steel Transportation—as the carrier, contained a trailer number that didn't match the flatbed trailer used for smuggling, included an origin address other than the Auburn Road lot, and listed a delivery address in North Carolina, not Dallas. Agent Juan Carlos De Arcos testified that the BOL appeared to have been forged by doctoring an older one, also found in the flatbed trailer used for smuggling.

