Under Brignoni-Ponce, the behavior of RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s driving is another factor that may be afforded weight in the reasonable suspicion analysis. See (citing cases describing 'erratic driving' and the 'use of 'load car—lead car' driving pattern, commonly used by smugglers' and stating that 'it is beyond dispute that United States Border Patrol and United States Border Patrol may consider the behavior of a vehicle's driver in determining whether there is reasonable suspicion to stop that vehicle.). Here, United States Border Patrol alerted to the fact that RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR. and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. had turned down Farm-to-Market Road 2050 'in tandem . . . one in the front, one in the back,' and thus United States Border Patrol left the checkpoint in pursuit of them. Although 'reasonable suspicion cannot result from the simple fact that two cars are traveling on a roadway . . . , one in front of the other,' 'connecting factors' between the vehicles could rationally lead an agent to believe that the vehicles are in fact driving 'in tandem.' (citing. And 'a belief that two vehicles are traveling in tandem in a lead car and load car arrangement may also contribute to a finding of reasonable suspicion.' (citing; see also (rejecting the argument 'that traveling near the border, traveling in a high crime area, and traveling in close proximity to another vehicle on a rarely traveled road are insufficient, by themselves, to establish reasonable suspicion' and taking into account the fact that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. 'was driving in close proximity to a pickup on a sparsely traveled road with a reputation as a smuggling route' in affirming the denial of the motion to suppress); (noting that 'traveling in tandem' is 'an arrangement favored by smugglers'). When United States Border Patrol initially went to follow the vehicles, he had no reason to believe that the two were connected. (May 2nd Hr'g at 2:56 p.m.). However, after his two registration checks came back to Corinth, Texas and Dallas-Fort Worth, locations 'north of San Antonio,' he thought it 'odd why those two vehicles from out of town were on that same road,' and it therefore appeared to him that 'those vehicles . . . had ties together' and 'both automobiles were riding in tandem south on the roadway.' See (adding to the reasonable suspicion for the stop was the fact that 'both automobiles were registered in the same county and in one other than the county through which they were driving.)