Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso is a defendant.
Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso is an appellant.

DeMOSS, Circuit Judge:

Plaintiff-Appellant United States of America (the 'United States of America') seeks review of the United States District Court's judgment of acquittal in favor of Defendant-Appellee Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso ('Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso') on possession of cocaine with the intent to distribute in violation of and . The United States of America also seeks review of the United States District Court's denial of the United States of America's motion for reconsideration of its order granting Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's motion to suppress the cocaine. Because the United States of America finds we do not have appellate jurisdiction to review either the judgment of acquittal or the denial of the motion for reconsideration of the suppression, we DISMISS the United States of America's appeal.

BACKGROUND

In the early evening hours on February 20, 2002, Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso drove a 1996 Mercury Cougar to the U.S. Border Patrol Checkpoint on Interstate 35 near Laredo, Texas, located on Interstate 35, 15 miles north of City of Laredo, Texas. Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso pulled into the primary inspection lane at the U.S. Border Patrol Checkpoint on Interstate 35 near Laredo, Texas, which Agent Jesus Garcia ('Jesus Garcia') was manning. When Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso pulled up, Agent Jesus Garcia questioned him about his citizenship. Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso responded in Spanish that he was a United States of America citizen and presented a birth certificate indicating he was born in City of Laredo, Texas, and a photo ID (not a driver's license). Agent Jesus Garcia examined the items and believed Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso was a United States of America citizen at that time. He then proceeded to ask Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso two more questions in Spanish: (1) where he was going and (2) who owned the 1996 Mercury Cougar. Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso answered that he was going to San Antonio and that he had bought the 1996 Mercury Cougar about a week ago. Just then, Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso started pulling out of the U.S. Border Patrol Checkpoint on Interstate 35 near Laredo, Texas. Agent Jesus Garcia called after him to ask if he wanted his documents back, and Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso stopped. At that point, Agent Jesus Garcia referred Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso to the secondary inspection area at the U.S. Border Patrol Checkpoint on Interstate 35 near Laredo, Texas, where a canine alerted and agents discovered cocaine hidden in the side panel of the 1996 Mercury Cougar. The entire episode took about five minutes.

On March 19, 2002, a City of Laredo, Texas federal grand jury returned an indictment charging Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso with possession of cocaine with the intent to distribute in violation of and. Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso pleaded not guilty before a magistrate judge on March 28, 2002. Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso filed a motion to suppress the cocaine on April 9, 2002, arguing his detention at the U.S. Border Patrol Checkpoint on Interstate 35 near Laredo, Texas was unconstitutionally lengthy. After a hearing, the United States of America denied this motion by written order entered May 23, 2002. A bench trial took place on June 3, 2002. The parties entered a joint stipulation of fact that same day. During the trial, Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's counsel made clear that Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso agreed with the stipulation 'other than the legality of the stop which is the issue that we seek to preserve for appeal by doing this.' The United States of America found Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso guilty and entered verdict on June 7, 2002.

Prior to sentencing, on January 3, 2003, Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso filed a motion for reconsideration of the United States of America's original denial of the motion to suppress based on. After a hearing, the United States of America granted this motion by written order entered on May 9, 2003, and suppressed the drug evidence. The United States of America filed a motion for reconsideration of this decision; and after hearing additional testimony, the United States of America entered another written order on August 12, 2003, reaffirming its decision to suppress the cocaine. Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso then filed a motion seeking either a judgment of acquittal or a new trial, which the United States of America granted by entering a judgment for acquittal and also a conditional order for a new trial on August 29, 2003.

On September 25, 2003, the United States of America filed a joint notice of appeal per: (1) the United States of America's judgment of acquittal and (2) the United States of America's order denying the United States of America's motion for reconsideration of the United States of America's prior order suppressing the cocaine evidence.

DISCUSSION

Whether the United States of America has appellate jurisdiction to review the denial of the United States of America's motion to reconsider the United States of America's suppression order.

Before reaching the merits, United States of America must examine the basis, if any, of its appellate jurisdiction. The United States of America's ability to appeal suppression of evidence in criminal cases is governed by states: 'An appeal by the United States of America shall lie to a United States Court of Appeals from a decision or order of a United States District Court suppressing or excluding evidence . . . not made after the defendant has been put in jeopardy and before the verdict.' The United States of America must also 'certify to the United States District Court that the appeal is not taken for purpose of delay and that the evidence is a substantial proof of a fact material in the proceeding.' Id. All appeals under shall be taken within thirty days after the decision, judgment or order has been rendered.' Id. Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)(1)(B)(i) requires: 'When the United States Government is entitled to appeal, its notice of appeal must be filed in the United States District Court within 30 days after . . . the entry of the judgment or order being appealed.' Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)(1)(B)(i).

Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso first contends that United States of America does not have appellate jurisdiction to review the United States of America's decision to suppress the cocaine because United States of America did not timely appeal that decision. He argues the 30-day clock began to run on August 12, the day the United States of America denied United States of America's motion for reconsideration of the grant of suppression; therefore, United States of America's filing notice of appeal on September 25 fell outside the 30 days. The timing advanced by Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso is correct. The clock would not have started running on May 9, 2003, when the suppression was actually granted, but would have started when the United States of America denied the motion for reconsideration United States of America made, on August 12. See .

The United States of America concedes that if the clock started on August 12, it did fail to meet the 30-day deadline. However, the United States of America points to the materiality requirement in and argues that the outcome of the motion to suppress by itself did not have any legal effect on the prior guilty verdict and thus had no practical 'material' effect on the proceedings until the United States of America granted Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's motion for judgment of acquittal. Thus, the United States of America contends the real clock began with the entry of acquittal, both for appealing the suppression and the acquittal. The United States of America is correct that appealing the decision to suppress per would be possible here, notwithstanding the Rule 4(b) timing problem.

Although Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)'s timing requirement is considered jurisdictional, see, the Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure allows the United States District Court to extend the time to file a notice of appeal for a period up to 30 days from the expiration of the United States of America's initial 30-day deadline. See Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)(4). However, the United States of America may only do so 'upon a finding of excusable neglect or good cause.' Id. This United States Court of Appeals has 'customarily treated' the filing of an untimely notice of appeal within the 30-day additional period contemplated by Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)(4) 'as a motion for a determination whether excusable neglect or good cause entitles the defendant to an extension of time to appeal.' (citation omitted). However, we have only granted this equitable treatment to criminal defendants, not to the United States of America as prosecutor. See id.; ; ; ; .

Unlike Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure, the timing requirements are not jurisdictional; we may still entertain appeals certified in an untimely manner. In Smith, United States of America filed notice to appeal an order quashing a subpoena within 30 days of that order's entry but did not certify its appeal until a few months later. Id. When United States of America issued a second order confirming its decision to quash the subpoena, United States of America reinstated its original appeal within 30 days of the second order's entry. Id. United States of America viewed United States of America's reinstated appeal as incorporating the proper, but untimely, certification from its first appeal. United States of America agreed to hear United States of America's appeal, in spite of the untimely certification, because United States of America effectively complied with the time limit in the statute and to the extent United States of America did not follow the precise letter of the law, Smith, the person meant to be protected by, suffered no harm. Id.

We find the United States of America's untimeliness should not be excused here. This United States Court of Appeals has never treated or recognized the United States of America's filing of an untimely motion within the 30-day additional period contemplated by Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure as a motion for a determination of excusable neglect or good cause. Whether this United States Court of Appeals would do so is not before us because the United States of America advanced no such argument. However, even if we were to treat the United States of America's untimely appeal as a motion for a determination of excusable neglect or good cause, we find no excusable neglect or good cause for its tardiness here. Likewise, the United States of America's case here is easily distinguishable from not only because there the United States of America timely appealed the United States District Court's second quashing order (albeit with the certification flaw) within the 30 days as required by Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure, but also because we find no 'equities in this appeal which favor the United States of America.'

We now consider the United States of America's argument that a post-verdict suppression order fails to become material to the proceedings until the United States of America decides to grant acquittal. We find this argument lacks merit. Rule 4(b)(1)(B)(i) requires filing of notice of appeal 'within 30 days after . . . the entry of the judgment or order being appealed.' Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)(1)(B)(i). For appealing the denial of the motion for reconsideration of granting suppression entered on August 12, 2003, the deadline for the United States of America was September 11, 2003. The language of does not extend or toll this deadline in any way, nor does it hinder the United States of America from appealing within 30 days; it also does not suggest that materiality is a different inquiry when a suppression is made pre-as opposed to post-verdict.

In Smith, United States of America found an indicted suspect's allegedly false allegations in an arson case, captured on videotape by a TV station, to be 'substantial proof of a fact material in the proceedings'; United States of America allowed appeal of the quashed subpoena as suppressed evidence under. Materiality did not depend on what legal decisions the district court hypothetically might later make in response to the quashing of the subpoena nor on any practical effect on the defendant's case. Neither party nor United States of America knew precisely what evidence the videotape might yield, if any; in fact, there, the defendant Smith had joined United States of America on the motion to subpoena the footage because he thought the evidence might be exculpatory to him. Id. United States of America simply and briefly considered the materiality of the contents of the footage at the time the quashing was final. There was no need to wait until such evidence practically affected the case.

Therefore, although the United States of America is correct that there are various hypothetical pathways the United States of America could choose to take after granting a post-guilty verdict suppression - immediately granting an acquittal, not changing the guilty verdict, or granting acquittal after some time has passed - if 'the suppressed evidence is a substantial proof of a fact material in the proceeding,' then the United States of America should note when 30 days will have passed after the suppression decision is final and make the decision to file notice of appeal within 30 days, instead of waiting until a possible acquittal is granted.

Moreover, while it may not always be readily apparent to the parties what evidence is a 'substantial proof of a fact material in the proceeding,' in Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's case the evidence considered by the United States of America during the bench trial consisted only of the stipulation of fact. This stipulation detailed the immigration stop on Interstate 35 and the cocaine discovered as a result of it, and Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's counsel clearly preserved the issue of the legality of the stop for appeal. A successful appeal on that issue would result in suppression of the cocaine. Thus, the materiality of that very suppression by the United States of America to Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's ultimate criminal fate under and was entirely clear when the suppression was made and reconsideration denied, even if how the United States of America would later practically deal with that suppression was not. The United States of America did not appeal in time; therefore, the United States Court of Appeals lacks jurisdiction to review the suppression decision.

Whether the United States Court of Appeals has appellate jurisdiction to review the judgment of acquittal.

Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso first argues that the United States of America cannot appeal the judgment of acquittal because appellate review would contravene the. This argument fails. The United States of America has expressly stated:

The United States of America was entitled to appeal both the order granting the motion to suppress and the order setting aside the verdict of guilty, since further proceedings if the United States of America were successful on the appeal would not be barred by the. The United States District Court had sensibly first made its finding on the factual question of guilt or innocence, and then ruled on the motion to suppress; a reversal of these rulings would require no further proceedings in the United States of America, but merely a reinstatement of the finding of guilt. ; . 
(internal citation and footnote omitted) (finding so in context where bench trial resulted in guilty verdict).
Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso also contends that the law does not permit appeals from judgments of acquittal. This argument also fails. Although the law is silent on appeals from judgments of acquittal, the United States Court of Appeals allows Government appeals from post-verdict judgments of acquittal. ; .

However,  Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso correctly argues that the law of the case doctrine  precludes the United States of America from presenting an adequate case or  controversy under Article III.    The law of the case doctrine is 'a restriction self-imposed by  the United States of America on themselves in the interests of judicial efficiency,  which generally operates to preclude a reexamination of issues  decided on appeal, either by the United States of America on remand or by the  United States of America itself upon a subsequent appeal.' Signal Oil & Gas Co. v. Barge W-701, 654 F.2d 1164, 1169 (5th  Cir. 1981) ; see  also ('Later courts may not consider matters which were decided by  necessary implication as well as those decided explicitly.')  (internal quotation marks omitted).

Thus, because the United States of America cannot disturb the improperly appealed suppression ruling, it becomes the law of the case by 'necessary implication' and cannot be reconsidered by the United States of America. There is no other ground argued or available to remand the case. And even if the United States of America could do so, on remand the United States of America would face a Hobson's choice: dismiss the charges against Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso due to lack of evidence or retry him without the cocaine. The United States of America has recognized that 'a claim becomes moot when . . . the parties lack a legally cognizable interest in the outcome.' (alteration in original) (quoting.

Neither of the United States of America's options provides an effective remedy on remand, so the United States of America does not have any 'interest in the outcome for which effective relief is available.' The United States of America's appeal does not present an adequate case or controversy. Therefore, this appeal of Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's judgment of acquittal is moot.

CONCLUSION

Having carefully considered the parties' respective briefing and arguments, for the reasons set forth above, we DISMISS the United States of America's appeal.

DISMISSED.

End of Document

Agent Jesus Garcia stated he asked these questions because certain cities are common destinations for illegal aliens and 'disposable' vehicles are often used for smuggling drugs or aliens. He also stated that 1996 Mercury Cougar vehicles have been used for alien smuggling because of their large trunk and a void in the quarter panels, and freshly cleaned cars, such as Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso's 1996 Mercury Cougar, suggest they have been wiped down for residue or odor.

2. United States of America has held that the 30 days start with the entry of the judgment or order in the docket per Rule 4(b), not the rendering of the judgment or order per. Here, the dates of rendering and entry for reconsideration of the suppression are the same (August 12) and for the acquittal are one day apart (rendered on August 28, entered on August 29).

3. United States of America has met United States of America's other requirements. United States of America expressly allows for United States of America appeal from orders suppressing evidence; here, the cocaine discovered in the 1996 Mercury Cougar was suppressed by United States of America. Suppression must not be made 'after the defendant has been put in jeopardy and before the verdict'; this is also met here because the order was entered after the bench trial ended and United States of America entered its guilty verdict. See (explaining that forbids the interruption of trial). United States of America also made the proper certifications in its notice of appeal per.

Although the United States of America makes the argument that the suppression decision did not ripen into a final decision under until the later judgment of acquittal and cites, for the idea that United States of America appeals must be appealable per both and, this United States of America only requires meeting the requirements of. Nor does a suppression decision have to qualify as appealable as a collateral order. 1996 Mercury Cougar is the proper vehicle for interlocutory criminal appeals by the United States of America, as even 1996 Mercury Cougar recognizes. The United States District Court denied the United States of America's motion for reconsideration on August 12. See.

For example, 'even though appellants stipulated all the essential facts necessary for their conviction, they did not withdraw their pleas of not guilty, and sought to expressly reserve their right to appeal from the order denying the motion to suppress.' (explaining that a stipulated bench trial is a proper means to preserve a pretrial suppression issue for appeal).

The United States of America responds by merely restating its argument that the suppression order itself is appealable.

A Hobson's choice is defined as 'an apparently free choice when there is no real alternative.' Merriam Webster Online Dictionary (2004), at.

8  These  are the United States of America's only options. All but one of the facts  Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso stipulated to concerned the checkpoint stop found illegal  by the United States of America or the cocaine found as a result of the stop,  which was suppressed by the United States of America. Thus, little, and  arguably no, factual evidence remains that could be used to convict  Raul Rafael Arce-Jasso under and on retrial.

