Prior to United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides's arrival at the location of the traffic stop on Farm-to-Market Road 2050, he knew that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had "encountered some illegals" in a white Malibu sedan on Farm-to-Market Road 2050. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:29 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides's supervisor had also informed him that United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino "had encountered a 'LIS,' the code for smuggling aliens, in the car," and that the driver, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR., had been arrested. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:31-1:32 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had encountered the illegal aliens only after running "another license plate, for a black Dodge pickup truck" that "kept going straight towards U.S. Highway 359" after United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino pulled over the white Malibu sedan. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:29 p.m.). United States Border Patrol Agent Jorge Luis Trevino had therefore radioed for United States Border Patrol agents, and particularly United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides because of his location on Highway 16, "to be on the lookout for that type of a truck." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). Significantly, the black Dodge pickup truck's registered owner and the driver of the white Malibu sedan, RICARDO RODRIGUEZ, JR., had the same last name—RODRIGUEZ, a fact that was known to United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides before he made contact with IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.. (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30, 1:31 p.m.). He was also aware of the fact that the two vehicles, one out of Corinth, Texas and one out of Dallas, Texas "were riding in tandem." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). During the hearing, United States Border Patrol Agent Hugo Benavides stated that he "remembers that the two cities are close by." (May 3rd Hr'g at 1:30 p.m.). Finally, IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. conceded that he was traveling to Dallas, Texas, a statement which validated the United States Border Patrol agents' suspicions regarding the route being driven by the two vehicles.