30  The undersigned briefly notes that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. did testify that he asked law enforcement officer "what time the buses come over so that he could leave," but was told that he "needed to wait." When he asked why he could not leave, law enforcement officer allegedly told him that the "canine was coming" to search the vehicle. This testimony conflicts with that of Freer Police Department, who stated that he never told Defendant that he needed to "stay around" and was not otherwise asked about any bus schedule. Based on IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s conflicting testimony, see supra note 20, and therefore his questionable credibility, the undersigned chooses to afford weight to Freer Police Department's account of the events, and finds that entirety of the search was consensual. Even if the undersigned were to give weight to IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.'s testimony that he was detained against his will until United States Border Patrol showed up "twenty, twenty-five" minutes later, the undersigned nonetheless finds that Freer Police Department had reasonable suspicion to detain Defendant until United States Border Patrol's arrival. Freer Police Department testified that he was aware that United States Border Patrol agents had "encountered . . . a white passenger vehicle . . . with illegal aliens" and that "there was a black truck with it, but that it was unknown what the truck's involvement was." (May 2nd Hr'g at 3:40 p.m.). Freer Police Department also testified that IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. was extremely nervous despite being informed that he had committed only a minor traffic infraction; IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not verify the owner of the black Dodge pickup truck, and changed his story as to who it belonged to; IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. could not provide any proof of insurance; and IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR. acknowledged that he was traveling to Dallas, Texas from Laredo, Texas, but was nonetheless taking a notably roundabout route, the best route being Highway 35. All of these facts provided sufficient reasonable suspicion to temporarily detain IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ, JR.. See (citing .