Carlos Martinez-Romero is a Carlos Martinez-Romero. Carlos Martinez-Romero is a Carlos Martinez-Romero.

Carlos Martinez-Romero was convicted of possession of marijuana. On appeal Carlos Martinez-Romero argues the trial court in the case of Carlos Martinez-Romero erred in overruling his motion to suppress evidence of the marijuana. Carlos Martinez-Romero based his motion to suppress on a lack of reasonable suspicion for the crew-cab truck used by Carlos Martinez-Romero stop at the U.S.-Mexico border. Because we agree with the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals that enough factors existed to justify the stop under the Woods totality of the circumstances test, we affirm the trial court in the case of Carlos Martinez-Romero's judgment.

FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

At approximately noon on May 24, 1998, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald's vehicle conducted an investigatory stop of Carlos Martinez-Romero as he traveled north on Interstate 35 in Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck. The stop took place in Cotulla, Texas, approximately sixty-eight miles from the U.S.-Mexico border. Conversing with Carlos Martinez-Romero in both Spanish and English, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald requested that Carlos Martinez-Romero produce proof of citizenship. Carlos Martinez-Romero presented proper proof of Mexican citizenship as well as a valid border-crosser card. While standing by Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald noticed the strong odor of carpet freshener and observed freshener sprinkled on the floorboard of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck. Suspecting that Carlos Martinez-Romero used the deodorizer to eliminate the scent of illegal drugs, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald obtained Carlos Martinez-Romero's consent to examine the toolbox in Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck located in the back of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck. Although Carlos Martinez-Romero denied possessing the key, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald opened the toolbox with a key attached to the ignition and found six bundles of marijuana totaling one hundred and sixty-nine pounds. United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald arrested Carlos Martinez-Romero for illegal drug possession. A jury found Carlos Martinez-Romero guilty of possession and imposed a sentence of seven years imprisonment. In a single issue, Carlos Martinez-Romero argues no reasonable suspicion existed to authorize the stop and therefore the trial court in the case of Carlos Martinez-Romero erred in admitting the evidence of marijuana at trial.

STANDARD OF REVIEW

Challenges to findings of reasonable suspicion involve mixed questions of law and fact. Although we pay deference to historical facts, we review de novo mixed questions of law and fact. We review all facts under the totality of the circumstances, rather than in isolation. Id.

REASONABLE SUSPICION

Both the United States and Texas constitutions protect individuals from unreasonable searches and seizures. Despite evolving standards in the area near the U.S.-Mexico border of roving border patrol stops, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals in.

Characteristics of Area and Proximity to Border

We quickly note both federal and state guidelines limit a reasonable proximity to stops conducted within fifty miles of the U.S.-Mexico border. See (holding a stop sixty miles from the U.S.-Mexico border insufficient to establish that the vehicle originated from the U.S.-Mexico border); (finding that stop conducted ninety miles from the U.S.-Mexico border amounted to mere suspicion that vehicle came from the U.S.-Mexico border).

Here, neither the State nor Carlos Martinez-Romero contest that United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald's vehicle conducted the stop approximately sixty-eight miles from the U.S.-Mexico border. Accordingly, this factor weighs in favor of Carlos Martinez-Romero.

United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald's Previous Experience

Agent David Fitzgerald testified that in his four years of experience as a United States Border Patrol Agent, crew-cab trucks missing a backseat, similar to that which Carlos Martinez-Romero drove, invariably indicate the stowage of illegal aliens or narcotics. United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald testified, "I've never seen a vehicle that was modified in such a way that was not used for either transporting illegal aliens or narcotics."

Carlos Martinez-Romero stresses that United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald's vehicle was not a credible witness because he only conducted one other narcotics arrest. Further, Carlos Martinez-Romero argued that United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald's testimony lacked credibility because the State failed to introduce the number of stops the agent made per week and the success rate of these stops. These allegations are unpersuasive on appeal because the trial court in the case of Carlos Martinez-Romero is the sole and exclusive trier of facts and the judge of the credibility of witnesses at suppression hearings. See .

Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck behavior

As one of the stated reasons for the stop, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald noticed that Carlos Martinez-Romero was traveling at a very low rate of speed when United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald first passed him. United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald testified that Carlos Martinez-Romero traveled approximately fifty miles per hour on Interstate 35 where the stated speed limit was seventy miles per hour. Additionally, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald observed that Carlos Martinez-Romero appeared very tense and rigid. When United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald turned his vehicle around to follow Carlos Martinez-Romero, he testified that Carlos Martinez-Romero consistently looked in Carlos Martinez-Romero's rear-view mirror and weaved within his lane. Further, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald testified that as he pulled alongside Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck, Carlos Martinez-Romero moved away from the wheel of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck and attempted to position himself between the door jamb of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck in between the front door of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck and Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck. While glances in one's rear-view mirror do not necessarily constitute peculiar behavior, we agree that Carlos Martinez-Romero's attempts to hide himself from United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald's view qualify as a suspicious activity.

David Fitzgerald cited the modification to the back seat of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck as another articulated reason for conducting the stop. When United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald first passed Carlos Martinez-Romero he observed that the modified back seat area of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck was missing. As discussed earlier, consistent with the agent's testimony regarding previous illegal alien and narcotics stops, often the modified back seat area of Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck provides the stow-away location. In fact, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald testified that in his experience as a Border Patrol Agent, never had he encountered a modification like that on Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck which did not serve an illegal purpose.

Vehicle Registration

Prior to the stop, United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald ran a license and vehicle registration check on Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck. United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald discovered Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck was registered in Edna, Texas. United States Border Patrol Agent David Fitzgerald testified that in his experience, several of the alien-smuggling vehicles he apprehended in the past originated from Edna, a suburb of Dallas. See (citing border patrol's experience that many smugglers travel en route to larger cities such as Austin, San Antonio, and Dallas, and thus vehicle registration in Dallas to an individual other than Carlos Martinez-Romero contributed to patrol's decision to detain Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck).

When we consider all of these factors under the Woods totality of the circumstances test, we hold the trial court in the case of Carlos Martinez-Romero properly determined that reasonable suspicion existed to justify the stop. The agent's experience, Carlos Martinez-Romero's crew-cab truck's registration and physical characteristics, appellant's behavior, and the inferences that could be drawn from these facts, established reasonable suspicion. Accordingly, we overrule Carlos Martinez-Romero's sole issue and affirm the trial court in the case of Carlos Martinez-Romero's judgment.

Justice Catherine Stone

End of Document

1 In, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals established a new reasonableness standard in evaluating roving patrol stops. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals eliminated the former "consistent with innocent activity as with criminal activity" test for reasonable suspicion and set out the "totality of the circumstances" test as the current standard. Id.

